content/modules/data-tools/pages/entity-inspector.adoc, before:

= Entity Inspector

Entity Inspector provides auto-generated UI for your data model entities. It allows you to browse, create, update and remove entity instances without creating any specific UI. Also, if your entity is soft-deleted, Entity Inspector lets you browse, restore or wipe out deleted instances.

Entity Inspector respects data access constraints imposed by xref:security:index.adoc[security], so it can be helpful both for administrators and for users with limited permissions.

[[installation]]
== Installation

To include Entity Inspector in your application, add the following lines to the `dependencies` section of your `build.gradle` file:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/build.gradle[tags=dependencies]
----

[[usage]]
== Usage

Go to the *Administration -> Entity Inspector* application screen and select the necessary entity from the *Entity Type* list. 

image::entity-browser.png[algne=centre]

In case the entity is soft-deleted, you can select displaying the removed entities and restore or wipe them out.

You can use Entity Inspector to export and import any simple entities including system entities. *Entity Inspector* screen displays actions for exporting the selected entity instances as ZIP or JSON and importing them to the system.

NOTE: Keep in mind that when an entity is exported using the Entity Inspector, reference attributes with the one-to-many or many-to-many relationship type are not included.

Commit message:

Update add-on installation instructions #161

content/modules/data-tools/pages/entity-inspector.adoc, after:

= Entity Inspector

Entity Inspector provides auto-generated UI for your data model entities. It allows you to browse, create, update and remove entity instances without creating any specific UI. Also, if your entity is soft-deleted, Entity Inspector lets you browse, restore or wipe out deleted instances.

Entity Inspector respects data access constraints imposed by xref:security:index.adoc[security], so it can be helpful both for administrators and for users with limited permissions.

[[installation]]
== Installation

Follow the instructions in the xref:ROOT:add-ons.adoc[Add-ons] section to install the add-on into your application.

[[usage]]
== Usage

Go to the *Administration -> Entity Inspector* application screen and select the necessary entity from the *Entity Type* list. 

image::entity-browser.png[algne=centre]

In case the entity is soft-deleted, you can select displaying the removed entities and restore or wipe them out.

You can use Entity Inspector to export and import any simple entities including system entities. *Entity Inspector* screen displays actions for exporting the selected entity instances as ZIP or JSON and importing them to the system.

NOTE: Keep in mind that when an entity is exported using the Entity Inspector, reference attributes with the one-to-many or many-to-many relationship type are not included.
