content/modules/data-model/pages/bean-validation.adoc, before:

= Bean Validation

Java Bean Validation is an approach for data validation. The current version is 2.0, described in https://beanvalidation.org/specification/[JSR-380^]. The reference implementation of Bean Validation is https://docs.jboss.org/hibernate/stable/validator/reference/en-US/html_single/?v=5.3[Hibernate Validator^].

Using Bean Validation approach brings quite a lot of benefits to your project:

* Validation logic is located next to your domain model: defining value, method, bean constraint is done naturally that allows to bring the OOP approach to the next level.
* Bean Validation standard gives you tens of https://docs.jboss.org/hibernate/stable/validator/reference/en-US/html_single/#validator-defineconstraints-spec[validation annotations^] out-of-the-box, like `@NotNull`, `@Size`, `@Min`, `@Max`, `@Pattern`, `@Email`, `@Past`, less standard like `@URL`, `@Length`, and many others.
* You are not limited by predefined constraints and can define your own constraint annotations. You can also make a new annotation by combining a couple of others, or create a brand new one and define a Java class that will serve as a validator.
+
For example, you can define a <<custom-constraints,class-level>> annotation `@ValidPassportNumber` to check that passport number follows the right format, which depends on the `location` field value.
* You can put constraints not only on fields and classes but also on methods and method parameters. It is called <<validation-by-contract,"validation by contract">>.

Bean Validation is automatically invoked in UI screens when user submits the data, and in the xref:rest:index.adoc[generic REST API].

[[defining-constraints]]
== Defining Constraints

You can define constraints using annotations of the `javax.validation.constraints` package or custom annotations. The annotations can be set on an entity or a POJO class declaration, field or getter, and on a service method.

The standard set of constraints includes the most commonly used and universal ones. In addition, Bean Validation allows developers to add their <<custom-constraints,own constraints>>.

* `@NotNull` validates that the annotated property value is not `null`.
* `@Size` validates that the annotated property value has a size between the `min` and `max` attributes; can be applied to `String`, `Collection`, `Map`, and array properties.
* `@Min` validates that the annotated property has a value higher than or equal to the `value` attribute.
* `@Max` validates that the annotated property has a value less than or equal to the `value` attribute.
* `@Email` validates that the annotated property is a valid email address.
* `@NotEmpty` validates that the property is not `null` or empty; can be applied to `String`, `Collection`, `Map` or `Array` values.
* `@NotBlank` can be applied only to text values and validates that the property is not `null` or whitespace.
* `@Positive` and `@PositiveOrZero` apply to numeric values and validate that they are strictly positive, or positive, including 0.
* `@Negative` and `@NegativeOrZero` apply to numeric values and validate that they are strictly negative, or negative, including 0.
* `@Past` and `@PastOrPresent` validate that a date value is in the past, or the past including the present.
* `@Future` and `@FutureOrPresent` validate that a date value is in the future, or in the future including the present.
* `@Pattern` checks if the annotated string property matches the regular `regex` expression.

//TODO: добавить информацию, как задать перечисленные аннотации для сущностей в Studio. Подождать, когда появится соответствующий подраздел и дать на него ссылку

[[entity-bean-validation]]
=== Entity Bean Validation

Example of using standard validation annotations on entity fields:

.Person.java
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/Person.java[tags=entity-start;entity-fields;entity-end]
----

<1> Length of a person's first name should be longer than 3 characters.
<2> Email string should be a properly formatted email address.
<3> A person's height should be larger than 0.
<4> A person's height should be less than or equal to 300.

Let’s check how bean validation is running automatically, when user submits data in UI.

image::validation-ui.png[align="center"]

As you can see, our application not just shows error messages to a user but also highlights form fields that have not passed single-field bean validations with red lines.

[[custom-constraints]]
==== Custom Constraints

You can create your domain-specific constraints with programmatic or declarative validation.

To create a constraint with programmatic validation, do the following:

. Create an annotation:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/validation/ValidPassportNumber.java[tags=annotation]
----
<1> Defines that the target of this runtime annotation is a class or an interface.
<2> States that the annotation implementation is in the `ValidPassportNumberValidator` class.

. Create a validator class:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/validation/ValidPassportNumberValidator.java[tags=validator]
----
<1> The `isValid()` method does the actual check.

. Use our class-level annotation:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/Person.java[tags=custom-validation-annotation;entity-start;entity-end]
----

You can also create custom constraints using a composition of existing ones, for example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/validation/ValidZipCode.java[tags=annotation]
----

When using a composite constraint, the resulting set of constraint violations will contain separate entries for each enclosed constraint. If you want to return a single violation, annotate the annotation class with `@ReportAsSingleViolation`.

[[validation-by-contract]]
=== Validation by Contract

With bean validation, constraints can be applied to the parameters and return values of methods or constructors of any Java type to check for their calls' pre-conditions and post-conditions. This is called "validation by contract".

With the "validation by contract" approach, you have clear, compact, and easily supported code.

Services perform validation of parameters and results if a method has the `@Validated` annotation in the service interface. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/service/PersonApiService.java[tags=person-api-service]
----
<1> Specifies that every object in the list returned by the `getPersons()` method needs to be validated against `Person` class constraints as well.
<2> Indicates that the method should be validated.
<3> The `@Valid` annotation can be used if you need the cascaded validation of method parameters. In the example above, the constraints declared on the `Person` object will be validated as well.

If you perform some custom programmatic validation in a service, use `CustomValidationException` to inform clients about validation errors in the same format as the standard bean validation does. It can be particularly relevant for REST API clients.

[NOTE]
Bean validation is inheritable. If you annotate some class or field or method with a constraint, all descendants that extend or implement this class or interface would be affected by the same constraint check.

[[constraint-groups]]
=== Constraint Groups

Constraint groups enable applying only a subset of all defined constraints, depending on the application logic. For example, you may want to force a user to enter a value for an entity attribute, but at the same time to have the ability to set this attribute to `null` by some internal mechanism. To do it, you should specify the `groups` attribute on the constraint annotation. Then the constraint will take effect only when the same group is passed to the validation mechanism.

The framework passes the following constraint groups to the validation mechanism:

* `RestApiChecks` - bean validation constraint group used by xref:jmix:rest:index.adoc[REST API] for data validation.
* `UiComponentChecks` - bean validation constraint group used by UI for fields validation.
* `UiCrossFieldChecks` - bean validation constraint group used by UI for cross-field validation.
* `javax.validation.groups.Default` - this group is always passed, except on the UI editor commit.

[[validation-messages]]
=== Validation Messages

Constraints can have messages to be displayed to users.

Messages can be set directly in the validation annotations, for example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/Person.java[tags=message1]
----

You can also place the message in the xref:localization:message-bundles.adoc[message bundle] and specify the message key in the annotation. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/Person.java[tags=message2]
----

Messages can contain parameters and expressions. Parameters are enclosed in `{}` and represent either localized messages or annotation parameters, for example `+{min}+`, `+{max}+`, `+{value}+`. Expressions are enclosed in `${}` and can include the validated value variable `validatedValue`, annotation parameters like `value` or `min`, and JSR-341 (EL 3.0) expressions. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/Person.java[tags=message3]
----

Localized message values can also contain parameters and expressions.

// TODO after https://github.com/jmix-framework/jmix/issues/686
//=== Validation of Related Objects

[[running-validation]]
== Running Validation

[[ui-validation]]
=== Validation in UI

UI components connected to data automatically get `BeanPropertyValidator` to check the field value. The validator is invoked from the `Validatable.validate()` method implemented by the visual component and can throw the `ValidationException` exception.

The standard validator can be removed or initialized with a different <<constraint-groups,constraint group>>:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/screen/person/PersonEdit.java[tags=person-edit-start;set-or-remove;person-edit-end]
----
<1> Completely removes bean validation from the UI component.
<2> Here, validators check only the constraints with explicitly set `UiComponentChecks` group because the `Default` group will not be passed.

By default, `AbstractBeanValidator` has both `Default` and `UiComponentChecks` groups.

If an entity attribute is annotated with `@NotNull` without constraint groups, it will be marked as mandatory in metadata, and UI components binding to data will have `required = true`.

The xref:ui:vcl/components/date-field.adoc[DateField] and xref:ui:vcl/components/date-picker.adoc[DatePicker] components automatically set their `rangeStart` and `rangeEnd` properties by the `@Past`, `@PastOrPresent`, `@Future`, `@FutureOrPresent` annotations.

Entity editor xref:ui:screens/screen-controllers.adoc[screens] perform xref:ui:screens/validation.adoc[validation] against class-level constraints on commit if the constraint includes the `UiCrossFieldChecks` group and if all attribute-level checks are passed. You can turn off the validation of this kind using the `setCrossFieldValidate()` method of the controller:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/screen/person/PersonEdit.java[tags=person-edit-start;set-cross-field-validate;person-edit-end]
----

[[rest-api-validation]]
=== Validation in REST API

Generic REST API automatically performs bean validation for xref:rest:entities-api/create-entities.adoc#entity-validation[creating and updating] actions and when using the xref:rest:business-logic.adoc#services-api[Services API] approach.

[[programmatic-validation]]
=== Programmatic Validation

You can perform bean validation programmatically using the `validate()` method of `javax.validation.Validator` interface. The result of validation is a set of `ConstraintViolation` objects. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/screen/person/PersonBrowse.java[tags=validator;save]
----

Commit message:

Passing parameters in navigation; Bean validation on persistence layer

content/modules/data-model/pages/bean-validation.adoc, after:

= Bean Validation

Java Bean Validation is an approach for data validation. The current version is 2.0, described in https://beanvalidation.org/specification/[JSR-380^]. The reference implementation of Bean Validation is https://docs.jboss.org/hibernate/stable/validator/reference/en-US/html_single/?v=5.3[Hibernate Validator^].

Using Bean Validation brings quite a lot of benefits to your project:

* Validation logic is located next to your domain model: defining value, method, bean constraint is done naturally.
* Bean Validation standard gives you tens of https://docs.jboss.org/hibernate/stable/validator/reference/en-US/html_single/#validator-defineconstraints-spec[validation annotations^] out-of-the-box, like `@NotNull`, `@Size`, `@Min`, `@Max`, `@Pattern`, `@Email`, `@Past`, less standard like `@URL`, `@Length`, and many others.
* You are not limited by predefined constraints and can define your own constraint annotations. You can also make a new annotation by combining a couple of others, or create a brand new one and define a Java class that will serve as a validator.
+
For example, you can define a <<custom-constraints,class-level>> annotation `@ValidPassportNumber` to check that passport number follows the right format, which depends on the `location` field value.
* You can put constraints not only on fields and classes but also on methods and method parameters. It is called <<validation-by-contract,"validation by contract">>.

Bean Validation is automatically invoked in UI views when user submits the data, and in the xref:rest:index.adoc[generic REST API].

[[defining-constraints]]
== Defining Constraints

You can define constraints using annotations of the `jakarta.validation.constraints` package or custom annotations. The annotations can be set on an entity or a POJO class declaration, field or getter, and on a service method.

The standard set of constraints includes the most commonly used and universal ones. In addition, Bean Validation allows developers to add their <<custom-constraints,own constraints>>.

* `@NotNull` validates that the annotated property value is not `null`.
* `@Size` validates that the annotated property value has a size between the `min` and `max` attributes; can be applied to `String`, `Collection`, `Map`, and array properties.
* `@Min` validates that the annotated property has a value higher than or equal to the `value` attribute.
* `@Max` validates that the annotated property has a value less than or equal to the `value` attribute.
* `@Email` validates that the annotated property is a valid email address.
* `@NotEmpty` validates that the property is not `null` or empty; can be applied to `String`, `Collection`, `Map` or `Array` values.
* `@NotBlank` can be applied only to text values and validates that the property is not `null` or whitespace.
* `@Positive` and `@PositiveOrZero` apply to numeric values and validate that they are strictly positive, or positive, including 0.
* `@Negative` and `@NegativeOrZero` apply to numeric values and validate that they are strictly negative, or negative, including 0.
* `@Past` and `@PastOrPresent` validate that a date value is in the past, or the past including the present.
* `@Future` and `@FutureOrPresent` validate that a date value is in the future, or in the future including the present.
* `@Pattern` checks if the annotated string property matches the regular `regex` expression.

TIP: The xref:studio:entity-designer.adoc#entity-designer-designer[Studio Entity Designer] allows you to quickly set validation annotations to entity attributes.

[[entity-validation]]
=== Entity Validation

Example of using standard validation annotations on entity fields:

.Person.java
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/Person.java[tags=entity-start;entity-fields;entity-end]
----

<1> Length of a person's first name should be longer than 3 characters.
<2> Email string should be a properly formatted email address.
<3> A person's height should be larger than 0.
<4> A person's height should be less than or equal to 300.

Let’s check how bean validation is running automatically, when user submits data in UI.

image::validation-ui.png[align="center"]

As you can see, our application not just shows error messages to a user but also highlights form fields that have not passed single-field bean validations with red lines.

[[custom-constraints]]
==== Custom Constraints

You can create your domain-specific constraints with programmatic or declarative validation.

To create a constraint with programmatic validation, do the following:

. Create an annotation:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/validation/ValidPassportNumber.java[tags=annotation]
----
<1> Defines that the target of this runtime annotation is a class or an interface.
<2> States that the annotation implementation is in the `ValidPassportNumberValidator` class.

. Create a validator class:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/validation/ValidPassportNumberValidator.java[tags=validator]
----
<1> The `isValid()` method does the actual check.

. Use our class-level annotation:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/Person.java[tags=custom-validation-annotation;entity-start;entity-end]
----

You can also create custom constraints using a composition of existing ones, for example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/validation/ValidZipCode.java[tags=annotation]
----

When using a composite constraint, the resulting set of constraint violations will contain separate entries for each enclosed constraint. If you want to return a single violation, annotate the annotation class with `@ReportAsSingleViolation`.

[[validation-by-contract]]
=== Validation by Contract

With bean validation, constraints can be applied to the parameters and return values of methods or constructors of any Java type to check for their calls' pre-conditions and post-conditions. This is called "validation by contract".

With the "validation by contract" approach, you have clear, compact, and easily supported code.

Services perform validation of parameters and results if a method has the `@Validated` annotation in the service interface. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/service/PersonApiService.java[tags=person-api-service]
----
<1> Specifies that every object in the list returned by the `getPersons()` method needs to be validated against `Person` class constraints as well.
<2> Indicates that the method should be validated.
<3> The `@Valid` annotation can be used if you need the cascaded validation of method parameters. In the example above, the constraints declared on the `Person` object will be validated as well.

If you perform some custom programmatic validation in a service, use `CustomValidationException` to inform clients about validation errors in the same format as the standard bean validation does. It can be particularly relevant for REST API clients.

[NOTE]
Bean validation is inheritable. If you annotate some class or field or method with a constraint, all descendants that extend or implement this class or interface would be affected by the same constraint check.

[[constraint-groups]]
=== Constraint Groups

Constraint groups enable applying only a subset of all defined constraints, depending on the application logic. For example, you may want to force a user to enter a value for an entity attribute, but at the same time to have the ability to set this attribute to `null` by some internal mechanism. To do it, you should specify the `groups` attribute on the constraint annotation. Then the constraint will take effect only when the same group is passed to the validation mechanism.

The framework passes the following constraint groups to the validation mechanism:

* `RestApiChecks` - bean validation constraint group used by xref:jmix:rest:index.adoc[REST API] for data validation.
* `UiComponentChecks` - bean validation constraint group used by UI for fields validation.
* `UiCrossFieldChecks` - bean validation constraint group used by UI for cross-field validation.
* `jakarta.validation.groups.Default` - this group is always passed, except saving the entity detail view.

[[validation-messages]]
=== Validation Messages

Constraints can have messages to be displayed to users.

Messages can be set directly in the validation annotations, for example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/Person.java[tags=message1]
----

You can also place the message in the xref:localization:message-bundles.adoc[message bundle] and specify the message key in the annotation. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/Person.java[tags=message2]
----

Messages can contain parameters and expressions. Parameters are enclosed in `{}` and represent either localized messages or annotation parameters, for example `+{min}+`, `+{max}+`, `+{value}+`. Expressions are enclosed in `${}` and can include the validated value variable `validatedValue`, annotation parameters like `value` or `min`, and JSR-341 (EL 3.0) expressions. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/entity/Person.java[tags=message3]
----

Localized message values can also contain parameters and expressions.

// TODO after https://github.com/jmix-framework/jmix/issues/686
//=== Validation of Related Objects

[[running-validation]]
== Running Validation

[[validation-on-persistence-layer]]
=== Validation on Persistence Layer

For xref:data-model:entities.adoc#jpa[JPA entities], bean validation is performed automatically by the EclipseLink ORM framework. It means that when you save an entity instance using xref:data-access:data-manager.adoc[DataManager], xref:data-access:entity-manager.adoc[EntityManager] or xref:data-access:data-repositories.adoc[data repositories], it will be validated and an exception will be thrown if the entity state is invalid.

You can switch the persistence validation off by specifying the following application property:

[source,properties]
----
jakarta.persistence.validation.mode = NONE
----

// todo flowui
[[ui-validation]]
=== Validation in UI

UI components connected to data automatically get `BeanPropertyValidator` to check the field value. The validator is invoked from the `Validatable.validate()` method implemented by the visual component and can throw the `ValidationException` exception.

The standard validator can be removed or initialized with a different <<constraint-groups,constraint group>>:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/screen/person/PersonEdit.java[tags=person-edit-start;set-or-remove;person-edit-end]
----
<1> Completely removes bean validation from the UI component.
<2> Here, validators check only the constraints with explicitly set `UiComponentChecks` group because the `Default` group will not be passed.

By default, `AbstractBeanValidator` has both `Default` and `UiComponentChecks` groups.

If an entity attribute is annotated with `@NotNull` without constraint groups, it will be marked as mandatory in metadata, and UI components binding to data will have `required = true`.

The xref:ui:vcl/components/date-field.adoc[DateField] and xref:ui:vcl/components/date-picker.adoc[DatePicker] components automatically set their `rangeStart` and `rangeEnd` properties by the `@Past`, `@PastOrPresent`, `@Future`, `@FutureOrPresent` annotations.

Entity editor xref:ui:screens/screen-controllers.adoc[screens] perform xref:ui:screens/validation.adoc[validation] against class-level constraints on commit if the constraint includes the `UiCrossFieldChecks` group and if all attribute-level checks are passed. You can turn off the validation of this kind using the `setCrossFieldValidate()` method of the controller:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/screen/person/PersonEdit.java[tags=person-edit-start;set-cross-field-validate;person-edit-end]
----

[[rest-api-validation]]
=== Validation in REST API

Generic REST API automatically performs bean validation for xref:rest:entities-api/create-entities.adoc#entity-validation[creating and updating] actions and when using the xref:rest:business-logic.adoc#services-api[Services API] approach.

[[programmatic-validation]]
=== Programmatic Validation

You can perform bean validation programmatically using the `validate()` method of `jakarta.validation.Validator` interface. The result of validation is a set of `ConstraintViolation` objects. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/datamodel/ex1/screen/person/PersonBrowse.java[tags=validator;save]
----
