content/modules/backoffice-ui/pages/vcl/xml.adoc, before:

= Components XML Attributes

[[align]]
== align

Defines the component position relative to the parent container. Possible values are:

* `++TOP_RIGHT++`

* `++TOP_LEFT++`

* `++TOP_CENTER++`

* `++MIDDLE_RIGHT++`

* `++MIDDLE_LEFT++`

* `++MIDDLE_CENTER++`

* `++BOTTOM_RIGHT++`

* `++BOTTOM_LEFT++`

* `++BOTTOM_CENTER++`

[[box-expand-ratio]]
== box.expandRatio

In `vbox` and `hbox` containers, components are placed in slots. The `box.expandRatio` attribute specifies the expand ratio for each slot. The ratio must be greater than or equal to 0.

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/button/button-screen.xml[tags=expand-ratio]
----

If we specify `box.expandRatio=1` to one component and its <<height,height>> or <<width,width>> is 100% (depends on layout), this component will be expanded to use all available space in the direction of component placement.

By default, all slots for components have equal width or height (i.e. `box.expandRatio = 1`). If another value is set for at least one component, all implicit values are ignored, and only explicitly assigned values are considered.

See also the <<expand,expand>> attribute.

[[buffered]]
== buffered

Sets the buffered mode. The default mode is non-buffered (the `false` value).

When in buffered mode, an internal buffer will be used to store changes until `commit()` is called. Calling `discard()` will revert the internal buffer to the value of the data source.

When in non-buffered mode, both read and write operations will be done directly on the data source. In this mode, the `commit()` and `discard()` methods serve no purpose.

[[caption]]
== caption

Sets the component's caption.

The attribute value can either be a message or a key in a message pack. In case of a key, the value should begin with the `msg://` prefix.

There are two ways of setting a key:

* A short key – in this case the message will be searched in the package of the current screen:
+
[source, properties]
----
caption="msg://infoField.caption"
----

* Full key including package name:
+
[source, properties]
----
caption="msg://com.company.sample.gui.screen/infoField.caption"
----

[[caption-as-html]]
== captionAsHtml

Defines whether HTML is enabled in the component's <<caption,caption>>. If set to `true`, the captions are rendered in the browser as HTML, and the developer is responsible for ensuring no harmful HTML is used. If set to `false`, the content is rendered in the browser as plain text.

Possible values − `true`, `false`. Default is `false`.

[[colspan]]
== colspan

Sets the number of grid columns that the component should occupy (default is 1).

This attribute can be defined for any component located immediately within a GridLayout container.

[[context-help-text]]
== contextHelpText

Sets the context help text. If set, then a special *?* icon will be added to a field. If the field has an external caption, i.e. either <<caption,caption>> or <<icon,icon>> attribute is set, then the context help icon will be displayed next to the caption text, otherwise next to the field itself. The context help tooltip appears when the users hovers over the *?* icon.

[[context-help-text-html-enabled]]
== contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled

Defines if <<context-help-text,context help text>> can contain HTML.

[[css]]
== css

Provides a declarative way to set CSS properties for UI components. This attribute can be used together with the <<stylename,stylename>> attribute, see an example below.

.XML definition:
[source, xml]
----
<cssLayout css="display: grid; grid-gap: 10px; grid-template-columns: 33% 33% 33%"
           stylename="demo"
           width="100%"
           height="100%">
    <label value="A" css="grid-column: 1 / 3; grid-row: 1"/>
    <label value="B" css="grid-column: 3; grid-row: 1 / 3;"/>
    <label value="C" css="grid-column: 1; grid-row: 2;"/>
    <label value="D" css="grid-column: 2; grid-row: 2;"/>
</cssLayout>
----

.Additional CSS:
[source, css]
----
  .demo > .v-label {
    display: block;
    background-color: #444;
    color: #fff;
    border-radius: 5px;
    padding: 20px;
    font-size: 150%;
  }
----

[[data-container]]
== dataContainer

Sets a data container defined in the `data` section of the screen XML descriptor.

When you set the `dataContainer` attribute for a component, you should also set the <<property>> attribute.

[[description]]
== description

Defines a hint which is displayed in a popup when a user hovers the mouse cursor over or clicks on the component area.

[[description-as-html]]
== descriptionAsHtml

Defines whether HTML is allowed in the component's <<description,description>>. If set to `true`, the captions are rendered in the browser as HTML, and the developer is responsible for ensuring no harmful HTML is used. If set to `false`, the content is rendered in the browser as plain text.

Possible values − `true`, `false`. Default is `false`.

[[editable]]
== editable

Indicates that the component’s content can be edited (do not confuse with <<enable>>).

Possible values − `true`, `false`. The default value is `true`.

The security subsystem also influences the ability to edit the content of a component bound to data. If the security subsystem information indicates that the component should not be editable, the value of its editable attribute is ignored.

[[enable]]
== enable

Defines the component's enabled/disabled state.

If a component is disabled, it does not accept input focus. Disabling a container disables all of its components as well. Possible values are `true`, `false`. By default all components are enabled.

[[expand]]
== expand

Defines a component within the container that should be expanded to use all available space in the direction of component placement.

For a container with vertical placement, this attribute sets 100% height to a component; for the containers with horizontal placement - 100% width. Additionally, resizing a container will resize the expanded component.

See also <<box-expand-ratio,box.expandRatio>>.

[[height]]
== height

Sets the component's height. Can be set in pixels or in percents of the parent container height. For example: `100px`, `100%`, `50`. If it is specified without units, pixels are assumed.

Setting a value in `%` means that the component will occupy the corresponding height within an area provided by the parent container.

When set to `AUTO` or `-1px`, a default value will be used for the component height. For a container, default height is defined by the content: it is the sum of the heights of all nested components.

[[html-sanitizer-enabled]]
== htmlSanitizerEnabled

Defines whether HTML sanitization is enabled for the component's content (<<caption,caption>>, <<description,description>>, <<context-help-text,contextHelpText>> attributes). If the `htmlSanitizerEnabled` is set to `true` and appropriate attributes (<<caption-as-html,captionAsHtml>>, <<description-as-html,descriptionAsHtml>>, <<context-help-text-html-enabled,contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled>>) are set to `true`, then the value of `caption`, `description`, and `contextHelpText` attributes will be sanitized.

// TODO example

`htmlSanitizerEnabled` attribute overrides the value of global xref:app-properties.adoc#jmix.ui.htmlSanitizerEnabled[jmix.ui.htmlSanitizerEnabled] application property.

[[icon]]
== icon

Sets a component icon.

The attribute value should contain a path to an icon file relative to the xref:themes.adoc[themes] folder:

[source, xml]
----
icon="icons/create.png"
----

or the icon name in an xref:icons.adoc[icon set]:

[source, xml]
----
icon="CREATE_ACTION"
----

If different icons should be displayed depending on the user's language, you can set paths to the icons in the message pack and specify a message key in the `icon` attribute, for example:

[source, xml]
----
icon="msg://addIcon"
----

Font elements of *Font Awesome* can be used instead of files in web client with Halo xref:themes.adoc[theme] (or derived from it). For this, specify the name of the required constant of the `com.vaadin.server.FontAwesome` class in the icon property with the `font-icon:` prefix, for example:

[source, xml]
----
icon="font-icon:BOOK"
----

For more details on the usage of icons see the xref:icons.adoc[] section.

[[id]]
== id

Sets an identifier of the component.

It is recommended to create identifiers according to the rules for Java-identifiers and use camelСase, for example: `userGrid`, `filterPanel`. The `id` attribute can be specified for any component and should be unique within a screen.

[[input-prompt]]
== inputPrompt

Defines an example text or a question that prompts the user what to do or type in the field.

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/combobox/combobox-screen.xml[tags=input-prompt]
----

image::vcl/components/input-prompt.gif[align="center"]

The attribute is used for `TextField`, xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc[ComboBox].

As a `ComboBox` has a fixed set of items, words like `Select` or `Choose` are used for prompts. For text fields, the prompting string often begins with a call to action: `Enter`, `Type`, `Search`. End the string with the noun the input is describing, for instance `Enter city` or `Enter an address`.

[[property]]
== property

Sets the name of an entity attribute, which value will be displayed and edited by this visual component.

`property` is always used together with the <<data-container>> attribute.

[[required]]
== required

Indicates that this field requires a value.

Possible values − `true`, `false`. Default is `false`.

The <<required-message,requiredMessage>> attribute can be used together with `required`.

[[required-message]]
== requiredMessage

Used together with the <<required>> attribute. It sets a message that will be displayed to a user when the component has no value.

The attribute can contain a message or a key from a message pack, for example:

[source, properties]
----
requiredMessage="msg://infoTextField.requiredMessage"
----

[[responsive]]
== responsive

Indicates that the component should react on change in the available space. Reaction can be customized with the help of xref:themes.adoc[styles].

Possible values − `true`, `false`. Default is `false`.

[[rowspan]]
== rowspan

Sets the number of grid lines that the component should occupy (default is 1).

This attribute can be set for any component located immediately within a `GridLayout` container.

[[stylename]]
== stylename

Defines a style name for a component. See xref:themes.adoc[] for details.

There are several predefined styles in `halo` theme available for the components:

[[stylename-huge]]
* `huge` - sets the field size to 160% of its default size.

[[stylename-large]]
* `large` - sets the field size to 120% of its default size.

[[stylename-small]]
* `small` - sets the field size to 85% of its default size.

[[stylename-tiny]]
* `tiny` - sets the field size to 75% of its default size.

[[tab-index]]
== tabIndex

Specifies whether the component is focusable and sets the relative order of the component in the sequence of focusable components on the screen.

It can take integer values of positive or negative range:

* `negative value` means that the component should be focusable, but should not be reachable via sequential keyboard navigation;

* `0` means that the component should be focusable and reachable via sequential keyboard navigation, but its relative order follows its relative position on the screen;

* `positive value` means the component should be focusable and reachable via sequential keyboard navigation; its relative order is defined by the value of the attribute: the sequential follows the increasing number of the `tabIndex`. If several components share the same `tabIndex` value, their relative order follows their relative position on the screen.

[[visible]]
== visible

Sets visibility of the component. Possible values − `true`, `false`.

If a container is invisible all its components are invisible. By default all components are visible.

[[width]]
== width

Defines component's width.

The value can be set in pixels or in percents of the width of the parent container. For example: `100px`, `100%`, `50`. If specified without units, pixels are assumed. Setting a value in `%` means that the component will occupy the corresponding width within an area provided by the parent container.

When set to `AUTO` or `-1px`, a default value will be used for a component width. For a container, the default width is defined by the content: it is the sum of the widths of all nested components.

Commit message:

Rename UI components #12 EntityComboBox, iteration 1

content/modules/backoffice-ui/pages/vcl/xml.adoc, after:

= Components XML Attributes

[[align]]
== align

Defines the component position relative to the parent container. Possible values are:

* `++TOP_RIGHT++`

* `++TOP_LEFT++`

* `++TOP_CENTER++`

* `++MIDDLE_RIGHT++`

* `++MIDDLE_LEFT++`

* `++MIDDLE_CENTER++`

* `++BOTTOM_RIGHT++`

* `++BOTTOM_LEFT++`

* `++BOTTOM_CENTER++`

[[box-expand-ratio]]
== box.expandRatio

In `vbox` and `hbox` containers, components are placed in slots. The `box.expandRatio` attribute specifies the expand ratio for each slot. The ratio must be greater than or equal to 0.

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/button/button-screen.xml[tags=expand-ratio]
----

If we specify `box.expandRatio=1` to one component and its <<height,height>> or <<width,width>> is 100% (depends on layout), this component will be expanded to use all available space in the direction of component placement.

By default, all slots for components have equal width or height (i.e. `box.expandRatio = 1`). If another value is set for at least one component, all implicit values are ignored, and only explicitly assigned values are considered.

See also the <<expand,expand>> attribute.

[[buffered]]
== buffered

Sets the buffered mode. The default mode is non-buffered (the `false` value).

When in buffered mode, an internal buffer will be used to store changes until `commit()` is called. Calling `discard()` will revert the internal buffer to the value of the data source.

When in non-buffered mode, both read and write operations will be done directly on the data source. In this mode, the `commit()` and `discard()` methods serve no purpose.

[[caption]]
== caption

Sets the component's caption.

The attribute value can either be a message or a key in a message pack. In case of a key, the value should begin with the `msg://` prefix.

There are two ways of setting a key:

* A short key – in this case the message will be searched in the package of the current screen:
+
[source, properties]
----
caption="msg://infoField.caption"
----

* Full key including package name:
+
[source, properties]
----
caption="msg://com.company.sample.gui.screen/infoField.caption"
----

[[caption-as-html]]
== captionAsHtml

Defines whether HTML is enabled in the component's <<caption,caption>>. If set to `true`, the captions are rendered in the browser as HTML, and the developer is responsible for ensuring no harmful HTML is used. If set to `false`, the content is rendered in the browser as plain text.

Possible values − `true`, `false`. Default is `false`.

[[caption-property]]
== captionProperty

Defines the name of an entity attribute which is displayed by a component. `captionProperty` can only be used for entities contained in a data container (for example, defined by the <<options-container,optionsContainer>> property of the xref:vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc[EntityComboBox] component).

If `captionProperty` is not defined, instance name is shown.

[[colspan]]
== colspan

Sets the number of grid columns that the component should occupy (default is 1).

This attribute can be defined for any component located immediately within a GridLayout container.

[[context-help-text]]
== contextHelpText

Sets the context help text. If set, then a special *?* icon will be added to a field. If the field has an external caption, i.e. either <<caption,caption>> or <<icon,icon>> attribute is set, then the context help icon will be displayed next to the caption text, otherwise next to the field itself. The context help tooltip appears when the users hovers over the *?* icon.

[[context-help-text-html-enabled]]
== contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled

Defines if <<context-help-text,context help text>> can contain HTML.

[[css]]
== css

Provides a declarative way to set CSS properties for UI components. This attribute can be used together with the <<stylename,stylename>> attribute, see an example below.

.XML definition:
[source, xml]
----
<cssLayout css="display: grid; grid-gap: 10px; grid-template-columns: 33% 33% 33%"
           stylename="demo"
           width="100%"
           height="100%">
    <label value="A" css="grid-column: 1 / 3; grid-row: 1"/>
    <label value="B" css="grid-column: 3; grid-row: 1 / 3;"/>
    <label value="C" css="grid-column: 1; grid-row: 2;"/>
    <label value="D" css="grid-column: 2; grid-row: 2;"/>
</cssLayout>
----

.Additional CSS:
[source, css]
----
  .demo > .v-label {
    display: block;
    background-color: #444;
    color: #fff;
    border-radius: 5px;
    padding: 20px;
    font-size: 150%;
  }
----

[[data-container]]
== dataContainer

Sets a data container defined in the `data` section of the screen XML descriptor.

When you set the `dataContainer` attribute for a component, you should also set the <<property>> attribute.

[[description]]
== description

Defines a hint which is displayed in a popup when a user hovers the mouse cursor over or clicks on the component area.

[[description-as-html]]
== descriptionAsHtml

Defines whether HTML is allowed in the component's <<description,description>>. If set to `true`, the captions are rendered in the browser as HTML, and the developer is responsible for ensuring no harmful HTML is used. If set to `false`, the content is rendered in the browser as plain text.

Possible values − `true`, `false`. Default is `false`.

[[editable]]
== editable

Indicates that the component’s content can be edited (do not confuse with <<enable>>).

Possible values − `true`, `false`. The default value is `true`.

The security subsystem also influences the ability to edit the content of a component bound to data. If the security subsystem information indicates that the component should not be editable, the value of its editable attribute is ignored.

[[enable]]
== enable

Defines the component's enabled/disabled state.

If a component is disabled, it does not accept input focus. Disabling a container disables all of its components as well. Possible values are `true`, `false`. By default all components are enabled.

[[expand]]
== expand

Defines a component within the container that should be expanded to use all available space in the direction of component placement.

For a container with vertical placement, this attribute sets 100% height to a component; for the containers with horizontal placement - 100% width. Additionally, resizing a container will resize the expanded component.

See also <<box-expand-ratio,box.expandRatio>>.

[[height]]
== height

Sets the component's height. Can be set in pixels or in percents of the parent container height. For example: `100px`, `100%`, `50`. If it is specified without units, pixels are assumed.

Setting a value in `%` means that the component will occupy the corresponding height within an area provided by the parent container.

When set to `AUTO` or `-1px`, a default value will be used for the component height. For a container, default height is defined by the content: it is the sum of the heights of all nested components.

[[html-sanitizer-enabled]]
== htmlSanitizerEnabled

Defines whether HTML sanitization is enabled for the component's content (<<caption,caption>>, <<description,description>>, <<context-help-text,contextHelpText>> attributes). If the `htmlSanitizerEnabled` is set to `true` and appropriate attributes (<<caption-as-html,captionAsHtml>>, <<description-as-html,descriptionAsHtml>>, <<context-help-text-html-enabled,contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled>>) are set to `true`, then the value of `caption`, `description`, and `contextHelpText` attributes will be sanitized.

// TODO example

`htmlSanitizerEnabled` attribute overrides the value of global xref:app-properties.adoc#jmix.ui.htmlSanitizerEnabled[jmix.ui.htmlSanitizerEnabled] application property.

[[icon]]
== icon

Sets a component icon.

The attribute value should contain a path to an icon file relative to the xref:themes.adoc[themes] folder:

[source, xml]
----
icon="icons/create.png"
----

or the icon name in an xref:icons.adoc[icon set]:

[source, xml]
----
icon="CREATE_ACTION"
----

If different icons should be displayed depending on the user's language, you can set paths to the icons in the message pack and specify a message key in the `icon` attribute, for example:

[source, xml]
----
icon="msg://addIcon"
----

Font elements of *Font Awesome* can be used instead of files in web client with Halo xref:themes.adoc[theme] (or derived from it). For this, specify the name of the required constant of the `com.vaadin.server.FontAwesome` class in the icon property with the `font-icon:` prefix, for example:

[source, xml]
----
icon="font-icon:BOOK"
----

For more details on the usage of icons see the xref:icons.adoc[] section.

[[id]]
== id

Sets an identifier of the component.

It is recommended to create identifiers according to the rules for Java-identifiers and use camelСase, for example: `userGrid`, `filterPanel`. The `id` attribute can be specified for any component and should be unique within a screen.

[[input-prompt]]
== inputPrompt

Defines an example text or a question that prompts the user what to do or type in the field.

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/combobox/combobox-screen.xml[tags=input-prompt]
----

image::vcl/components/input-prompt.gif[align="center"]

The attribute is used for `TextField`, xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc[ComboBox].

As a `ComboBox` has a fixed set of items, words like `Select` or `Choose` are used for prompts. For text fields, the prompting string often begins with a call to action: `Enter`, `Type`, `Search`. End the string with the noun the input is describing, for instance `Enter city` or `Enter an address`.

[[options-container]]
== optionsContainer

Sets the name of a data container which contains a list of options.

The <<caption-property,captionProperty>> attribute can be used together with `optionsContainer`.

[[property]]
== property

Sets the name of an entity attribute, which value will be displayed and edited by this visual component.

`property` is always used together with the <<data-container>> attribute.

[[required]]
== required

Indicates that this field requires a value.

Possible values − `true`, `false`. Default is `false`.

The <<required-message,requiredMessage>> attribute can be used together with `required`.

[[required-message]]
== requiredMessage

Used together with the <<required>> attribute. It sets a message that will be displayed to a user when the component has no value.

The attribute can contain a message or a key from a message pack, for example:

[source, properties]
----
requiredMessage="msg://infoTextField.requiredMessage"
----

[[responsive]]
== responsive

Indicates that the component should react on change in the available space. Reaction can be customized with the help of xref:themes.adoc[styles].

Possible values − `true`, `false`. Default is `false`.

[[rowspan]]
== rowspan

Sets the number of grid lines that the component should occupy (default is 1).

This attribute can be set for any component located immediately within a `GridLayout` container.

[[stylename]]
== stylename

Defines a style name for a component. See xref:themes.adoc[] for details.

There are several predefined styles in `halo` theme available for the components:

[[stylename-huge]]
* `huge` - sets the field size to 160% of its default size.

[[stylename-large]]
* `large` - sets the field size to 120% of its default size.

[[stylename-small]]
* `small` - sets the field size to 85% of its default size.

[[stylename-tiny]]
* `tiny` - sets the field size to 75% of its default size.

[[tab-index]]
== tabIndex

Specifies whether the component is focusable and sets the relative order of the component in the sequence of focusable components on the screen.

It can take integer values of positive or negative range:

* `negative value` means that the component should be focusable, but should not be reachable via sequential keyboard navigation;

* `0` means that the component should be focusable and reachable via sequential keyboard navigation, but its relative order follows its relative position on the screen;

* `positive value` means the component should be focusable and reachable via sequential keyboard navigation; its relative order is defined by the value of the attribute: the sequential follows the increasing number of the `tabIndex`. If several components share the same `tabIndex` value, their relative order follows their relative position on the screen.

[[visible]]
== visible

Sets visibility of the component. Possible values − `true`, `false`.

If a container is invisible all its components are invisible. By default all components are visible.

[[width]]
== width

Defines component's width.

The value can be set in pixels or in percents of the width of the parent container. For example: `100px`, `100%`, `50`. If specified without units, pixels are assumed. Setting a value in `%` means that the component will occupy the corresponding width within an area provided by the parent container.

When set to `AUTO` or `-1px`, a default value will be used for a component width. For a container, the default width is defined by the content: it is the sum of the widths of all nested components.
