content/modules/ROOT/pages/account-management.adoc, before:

= Account, Billing, and Subscription Management

[[account-registration]]
== Account Registration

You should register Jmix account to use Jmix Studio or to manage your subscriptions. You can make it both on website or right xref:studio:subscription.adoc#login-jmix-account[in Studio].

. Open https://store.jmix.io/account[^].
+
image::store/login-form.png[align="center",width="1549"]

. Click on the *Register* link.
. In the *Registration* form, fill in the *First name*, *Last name*, *Email*, and *Password* fields, accept the privacy policy and click on the *Register* button.
+
NOTE: The email address you entered will be used as your login and the primary email address for your account.
+
image::store/registration-form.png[align="center",width="1549"]

. After you have submitted the registration form, you should verify your email address to activate your account.
+
image::store/verification-email-form.png[align="center",width="936"]
+
Find the verification email in your inbox and click the link in the email to finish the registration.

. Go back to the browser and click the *Log in* button in the *Email Verification* form.

[[trial]]
== Trial Licenses

You can sign up for a free trial xref:studio:subscription.adoc#subscription[subscription] and use it for 28 days.

[[rad-trial]]
=== RAD Trial

To get a xref:studio:subscription.adoc#rad-trial[RAD trial] subscription, you should xref:studio:subscription.adoc#login-jmix-account[log in] to the Jmix account via Jmix Studio. After that, a trial subscription for 28 days is activated.

[[enterprise-trial]]
=== Enterprise Trial

To get an xref:studio:subscription.adoc#enterprise-trial[Enterprise trial] subscription, visit your profile page at https://store.jmix.io/account[^] and click on the *Get Enterprise trial* button in the *Subscription* section.

image::store/get-enterprise-trial.png[align="center", width="1260"]

After that, the Enterprise trial subscription is activated, and the *Download Enterprise trial* button appears.

image::store/download-trial-project.png[align="center", width="1083"]

The downloaded project includes the trial versions of the following Jmix commercial add-ons:

* BPM
* Business Calendars
* Maps
* Notifications
* WebDAV

Unpack the source code of the trial project and open it in Jmix Studio as described in the xref:studio:project.adoc#opening-existing-project[Opening Existing Project] section.

CAUTION: Trial versions of commercial add-ons will stop working in 28 days after requesting the trial Enterprise subscription. An application including expired trial add-ons will not run.

[[subscription-purchase]]
== Subscription Purchase

To buy a subscription, click on the *Buy* button in the *Account* tab, or switch to the *Store* tab and click on the *Buy* button there.

image::store/buy-subscription.png[align="center", width="1381"]

The page for purchasing a new subscription opens:

image::store/new-subscription-page.png[align="center", width="1337"]

[[company]]
=== Company

A Company license is the standard licensing option for commercial and non-profit organizations. A Company license can be used by a single person within the organization.

To buy a RAD or an Enterprise subscription:

. Select the *Company* in the *License to* field, the https://www.jmix.io/subscription-plans-and-prices/#plan[Subscription Plan^] and the *Period*.

. Specify the number of users that require a subscription purchase.

. Read and accept the *Jmix Studio and Add-ons License Agreement*.
+
image::store/buy-company-subscription.png[align="center", width="1337"]
+
NOTE: If you have a promo code, click on the *Apply promo code* link and enter the promo code in the dialog.

. Click on the *Proceed to billing info* button.
. On the next step, fill in the billing info:
+
image::store/buy-company-subscription-billing-info.png[align="center", width="989"]

. In the *Payment* section, add a valid payment card:
+
image::store/buy-company-subscription-payment.png[align="center", width="989"]

. Verify the total sum and click on the *Complete Purchase* button.
. The license keys and instructions on how to use them will be sent to your email.
+
image::store/thank-you-page.png[align="center", width="1214"]

[[individual]]
=== Individual

An Individual license is an option for private individuals who purchase a license with their own funds and solely for their own use. Individual licenses are not to be purchased, refunded or in any way financed by companies.

To buy a RAD or an Enterprise subscription:

. Select the *Individual* in the *License to* field, the https://www.jmix.io/subscription-plans-and-prices/#plan[Subscription Plan^] and the *Period*.

. Read and accept the *Jmix Studio and Add-ons License Agreement*.
+
image::store/buy-individual-subscription.png[align="center", width="1367"]
+
NOTE: If you have a promo code, click on the *Apply promo code* link and enter the promo code in the dialog.

. Click on the *Get individual license* button.

. Fill in the fields in the request dialog and click on the *OK* button.
+
image::store/get-idividual-license-dialog.png[align="center", width="521"]

. A request for an individual license will be sent to the Jmix team.
+
image::store/buy-individual-subscription-request.png[align="center", width="1031"]

. As soon as the Jmix team validates your data, they will email you with further instructions. Usually, it takes not more than one working days.

. If your request has been confirmed, complete your purchase at the store. Go to the https://store.jmix.io/store[^].
+
image::store/buy-individual-subscription-complete.png[align="center", width="1335"]
+
Select the *Individual* license, the subscription *Plan* and the *Period*. Accept the *Jmix Studio and Add-ons License Agreement*. Click on the *Proceed to billing info* button.

. On the next step, fill in the billing info:
+
image::store/buy-individual-subscription-billing-info.png[align="center", width="1026"]

. In the *Payment* section, add a valid payment card:
+
image::store/buy-individual-subscription-add-card.png[align="center", width="1026"]

. Verify the total sum and click on the *Complete Purchase* button.

. The license keys and instructions on how to use them will be sent to your email.
+
image::store/thank-you-page.png[align="center", width="1214"]

[[academic]]
=== Academic

The Jmix team provides free Academic licenses to official educational organizations and their students.

To request an academic license:

. Select the *Academic* in the *License to* field.

. Read and accept the *Jmix Studio and Add-ons License Agreement*.
+
image::store/buy-academic-subscription.png[align="center", width="1226"]

. Click on the *Get academic license* button.

. Fill in the fields in the request dialog and click on the *OK* button.
+
image::store/buy-academic-subscription-request.png[align="center", width="519"]

. A request for an academic license will be sent to the Jmix team.
+
image::store/buy-individual-subscription-request.png[align="center", width="1031"]

. As soon as the Jmix team validates your data, they will email you with further instructions. Usually, it takes not more than one working days.

. If your request has been confirmed, visit the <<subscription-management,subscription management page>> to assign licenses to your colleagues.

[[subscription-management]]
== Subscription Management

To view details of subscription, change plan, or cancel renewal:

. Switch to the *Account* tab (https://store.jmix.io/account[^]).
. Scroll down to the *Subscription* section.
+
image::store/manage-commercial-subscription.png[align="center", width="1049"]

. To cancel the automatic renewal of your subscription, click on the appropriate button next to the subscription.
+
CAUTION: If you cancel the automatic renewal, this action cannot be reverted. Your subscription will remain active until the end of the period you have paid for (whether this is monthly or annual), but you will no longer be charged for this subscription going forward.

. To view a subscription's full details, click on the *Manage* button next to the subscription.
+
image::store/subscription-details.png[align="center", width="1049"]

. To change the https://www.jmix.io/subscription-plans-and-prices/#plan[subscription plan^] or number of users in this subscription, click on the *Change number of users or plan* button. To cancel the automatic renewal of your subscription, click on the *Cancel renewal* button.
+
[[assign-license-key]]
. If the license key is not assigned to the user, click the *Assign* button.

* You can assign the license key to a user from your team:
+
image::store/assign-team-user.png[align="center", width="522"]
+
The instructions to activate a license will be sent to the user by email.

* Or you can assign the license key to a new user:
+
image::store/assign-new-user.png[align="center", width="522"]
+
You should select a role for this user. Available values are _Worker_ and _Admin_.
+
The instructions to register on the website and activate a license will be sent to the user by email. As soon as the invitation is confirmed, you will get a notification.

. If the license key is assigned to the user, you can:

* Re-assign this key
* Email to the user with the instructions to activate a license
* View the license key
+
image::store/license-keys.png[align="center", width="1126"]

[[company-profile-management]]
== Company Profile Management

In the company profile, you can create new users and assign admins who can <<subscription-management,manage subscriptions>>.

. Switch to the *Account* tab (https://store.jmix.io/account[^]).
. Scroll down to the *Team Member* section.
+
image::store/team-member.png[align="center", width="1049"]

. To add a new user, click on the *Add* button.
+
image::store/add-user-dialog.png[align="center", width="521"]

. In the *Add User* dialog, fill in the *Email* field and select a user role. Two roles are available:
* _Worker_ only sees his license key on the profile screen.
* _Admin_ is a role with full access. Admin sees all the keys in the subscription in the company profile and can manage payments.

. After you have added a user, you can <<assign-license-key,assign the license key>> to this user.
. To assign the role to the user, click on the *Edit* button in the *Team Member* section and change the role in the dropdown list.
. To delete the user, click on the *Delete* button next to this user. If the user has a license key, you should unassign the license key from this user before deletion from team members.

[[consulting]]
== Consulting

You can purchase consultancy hours and get support directly from the Jmix team.

[[buy-consulting]]
=== Buy Consulting

. To buy consulting, click on the *Buy consulting* button in the *Balance of hours and incidents* section of the *Account* tab, or switch to the *Store* tab and click on the *Purchase* button there.
+
image::store/buy-consulting.png[align="center", width="811"]

. The page for purchasing consultancy hours opens:
+
image::store/buy-consultancy-hours.png[align="center", width="1262"]

. Select the *Consulting language* and *Number of hours*. Accept the *Jmix Services Agreement*. Click on the *Proceed to billing info* button.

. On the next step, fill in the billing info:
+
image::store/buy-company-subscription-billing-info.png[align="center", width="989"]

. In the *Payment* section, add a valid payment card:
+
image::store/buy-company-subscription-payment.png[align="center", width="989"]

. Verify the total sum and click on the *Complete Purchase* button.

. The instructions on how to set up the communication channels between you and the Jmix team will be sent to your email.

[[consulting-reports]]
=== Reports

Every month, the Jmix team sends a consulting report.

To view reports, click on the *View details* button in the *Balance of hours and incidents* section of the *Account* tab.

image::store/view-reports-consulting.png[align="center", width="989"]

[[invoices]]
== Invoices

[[posted-invoices]]
=== Posted Invoices

Posted invoices are invoices that have not been paid.

image::store/posted-invoices.png[align="center", width="989"]

You can view invoice details before payment. Click on the *Download PDF* button.

To pay the invoice, click on the *Make payment* button.

image::store/pay-invoice.png[align="center", width="522"]

In this dialog, you can add or change the payment card.

Click *OK* to complete your transaction.

[[paid-invoices]]
=== Paid Invoices

In the *Paid Invoices* section of the *Account* tab, you can view all paid invoices and download the details:

image::store/paid-invoices.png[align="center", width="1085"]

//[[billing-info]]
//== Billing Info

//[[payment-method]]
//=== Payment Method

Commit message:

fixed remarks in Account, Billing, and Subscription Management

content/modules/ROOT/pages/account-management.adoc, after:

= Account, Billing, and Subscription Management

[[account-registration]]
== Account Registration

You should register Jmix account to use Jmix Studio or to manage your subscriptions. You can make it both on website or right xref:studio:subscription.adoc#login-jmix-account[in Studio].

. Open https://store.jmix.io/account[^].
+
image::store/login-form.png[align="center",width="1549"]

. Click on the *Register* link.
. In the *Registration* form, fill in the *First name*, *Last name*, *Email*, and *Password* fields, accept the privacy policy and click on the *Register* button.
+
NOTE: The email address you entered will be used as your login and the primary email address for your account.
+
image::store/registration-form.png[align="center",width="1549"]

. After you have submitted the registration form, you should verify your email address to activate your account.
+
image::store/verification-email-form.png[align="center",width="936"]
+
Find the verification email in your inbox and click the link in the email to finish the registration.

. Go back to the browser and click the *Log in* button in the *Email Verification* form.

[[trial]]
== Trial Licenses

You can sign up for a free trial xref:studio:subscription.adoc#subscription[subscription] and use it for 28 days.

[[rad-trial]]
=== RAD Trial

To get a xref:studio:subscription.adoc#rad-trial[RAD trial] subscription, you should xref:studio:subscription.adoc#login-jmix-account[log in] to the Jmix account via Jmix Studio. After that, a trial subscription for 28 days is activated.

[[enterprise-trial]]
=== Enterprise Trial

To get an xref:studio:subscription.adoc#enterprise-trial[Enterprise trial] subscription, visit your profile page at https://store.jmix.io/account[^] and click on the *Get Enterprise trial* button in the *Subscription* section.

image::store/get-enterprise-trial.png[align="center", width="1260"]

After that, the Enterprise trial subscription is activated, and the *Download Enterprise trial* button appears.

image::store/download-trial-project.png[align="center", width="1083"]

The downloaded project includes the trial versions of the following Jmix commercial add-ons:

* BPM
* Business Calendars
* Maps
* Notifications
* WebDAV

Unpack the source code of the trial project and open it in Jmix Studio as described in the xref:studio:project.adoc#opening-existing-project[Opening Existing Project] section.

CAUTION: Trial versions of commercial add-ons will stop working in 28 days after requesting the trial Enterprise subscription. An application including expired trial add-ons will not run.

[[subscription-purchase]]
== Subscription Purchase

To buy a subscription, click on the *Buy* button in the *Account* tab, or switch to the *Store* tab and click on the *Buy* button there.

image::store/buy-subscription.png[align="center", width="1381"]

The page for purchasing a new subscription opens:

image::store/new-subscription-page.png[align="center", width="1337"]

[[company]]
=== Company

A Company license is the standard licensing option for commercial organizations. A Company license can be used by a single person within the organization. You can find all the details about licensing on the https://www.jmix.io/subscription-plans-and-prices/[Pricing page^].

To buy a RAD or an Enterprise subscription:

. Select the *Company* in the *License to* field, the https://www.jmix.io/subscription-plans-and-prices/#plan[Subscription Plan^] and the *Period*.

. Specify the number of users that require a subscription purchase.

. Read and accept the *Jmix Studio and Add-ons License Agreement*.
+
image::store/buy-company-subscription.png[align="center", width="1337"]
+
NOTE: If you have a promo code, click on the *Apply promo code* link and enter the promo code in the dialog.

. Click on the *Proceed to billing info* button.
. On the next step, fill in the billing info:
+
image::store/buy-company-subscription-billing-info.png[align="center", width="989"]
+
NOTE: The information specified in this step will be displayed in the payment invoice. After making the purchase, the invoice will be sent to the email address you specified here.

. In the *Payment* section, add a valid payment card:
+
image::store/buy-company-subscription-payment.png[align="center", width="989"]

. Verify the total sum and click on the *Complete Purchase* button.
. The purchase is successful. Click on the button and assign licenses in your subscription. Find more details about it in the <<subscription-management,Subscription Management>> section.

[[individual]]
=== Individual

An Individual license is an option for private individuals who purchase a license with their own funds and solely for their own use. Individual licenses are not to be purchased, refunded or in any way financed by companies.

To buy a RAD or an Enterprise subscription:

. Select the *Individual* in the *License to* field, the https://www.jmix.io/subscription-plans-and-prices/#plan[Subscription Plan^] and the *Period*.

. Read and accept the *Jmix Studio and Add-ons License Agreement*.
+
image::store/buy-individual-subscription.png[align="center", width="1367"]
+
NOTE: If you have a promo code, click on the *Apply promo code* link and enter the promo code in the dialog.

. Click on the *Get individual license* button.

. Fill in the fields in the request dialog and click on the *OK* button.
+
image::store/get-idividual-license-dialog.png[align="center", width="521"]

. A request for an individual license will be sent to the Jmix team.
+
image::store/buy-individual-subscription-request.png[align="center", width="1031"]

. As soon as the Jmix team validates your data, they will email you with further instructions. Usually, it takes not more than one working days.

. If your request has been confirmed, complete your purchase at the store. Go to the https://store.jmix.io/store[^].
+
image::store/buy-individual-subscription-complete.png[align="center", width="1335"]
+
Select the *Individual* license, the subscription *Plan* and the *Period*. Accept the *Jmix Studio and Add-ons License Agreement*. Click on the *Proceed to billing info* button.

. On the next step, fill in the billing info:
+
image::store/buy-individual-subscription-billing-info.png[align="center", width="1026"]

. In the *Payment* section, add a valid payment card:
+
image::store/buy-individual-subscription-add-card.png[align="center", width="1026"]

. Verify the total sum and click on the *Complete Purchase* button.

. After a successful purchase, the user can xref:studio:subscription.adoc#login-jmix-account[log in] to Jmix Studio.

[[academic]]
=== Academic

The Jmix team provides free Academic licenses to official educational organizations and their students.

To request an academic license:

. Select the *Academic* in the *License to* field.

. Read and accept the *Jmix Studio and Add-ons License Agreement*.
+
image::store/buy-academic-subscription.png[align="center", width="1226"]

. Click on the *Get academic license* button.

. Fill in the fields in the request dialog and click on the *OK* button.
+
image::store/buy-academic-subscription-request.png[align="center", width="519"]

. A request for an academic license will be sent to the Jmix team.
+
image::store/buy-individual-subscription-request.png[align="center", width="1031"]

. As soon as the Jmix team validates your data, they will email you with further instructions. Usually, it takes not more than one working days.

. If your request has been confirmed, visit the <<subscription-management,subscription management page>> to assign licenses to your colleagues.

[[subscription-management]]
== Subscription Management

To view details of subscription, change plan, or cancel renewal:

. Switch to the *Account* tab (https://store.jmix.io/account[^]).
. Scroll down to the *Subscription* section.
+
image::store/manage-commercial-subscription.png[align="center", width="1049"]

. To cancel the automatic renewal of your subscription, click on the appropriate button next to the subscription.
+
CAUTION: If you cancel the automatic renewal, this action cannot be reverted. Your subscription will remain active until the end of the period you have paid for (whether this is monthly or annual), but you will no longer be charged for this subscription going forward.

. To view a subscription's full details, click on the *Manage* button next to the subscription.
+
image::store/subscription-details.png[align="center", width="1049"]

. To change the https://www.jmix.io/subscription-plans-and-prices/#plan[subscription plan^] or number of users in this subscription, click on the *Change number of users or plan* button. To cancel the automatic renewal of your subscription, click on the *Cancel renewal* button.
+
[[assign-license-key]]
. If the license key is not assigned to the user, click the *Assign* button.

* You can assign the license key to a user from your team:
+
image::store/assign-team-user.png[align="center", width="522"]
+
The instructions to activate a license will be sent to the user by email.

* Or you can assign the license key to a new user:
+
image::store/assign-new-user.png[align="center", width="522"]
+
You should select a role for this user. Available values are _Worker_ and _Admin_.
+
** _Worker_ only sees his license key on the profile screen. If a user with the _Worker_ role buys a subscription, he becomes an _Admin_ and manages the purchased and other subscriptions of the company.
** _Admin_ is a role with full access. Admin sees all the keys in the subscription in the company profile and can manage payments.
+
The instructions to register on the website and activate a license will be sent to the user by email. As soon as the invitation is confirmed, you will get a notification.

. If the license key is assigned to the user, you can:

* Re-assign this key
* Email to the user with the instructions to activate a license
* View the license key.
+
NOTE: We recommend using the license key only for setting up CI/CD. To activate Jmix Studio, use your login and password.
+
image::store/license-keys.png[align="center", width="1126"]

[[company-profile-management]]
== Company Profile Management

In the company profile, you can create new users and assign admins who can <<subscription-management,manage subscriptions>>.

. Switch to the *Account* tab (https://store.jmix.io/account[^]).
. Scroll down to the *Team Member* section.
+
image::store/team-member.png[align="center", width="1049"]

. To add a new user, click on the *Add* button.
+
image::store/add-user-dialog.png[align="center", width="521"]

. In the *Add User* dialog, fill in the *Email* field and select a user role. Two roles are available:
* _Worker_ only sees his license key on the profile screen. If a user with the _Worker_ role buys a subscription, he becomes an _Admin_ and manages the purchased and other subscriptions of the company.
* _Admin_ is a role with full access. Admin sees all the keys in the subscription in the company profile and can manage payments.

. After you have added a user, you can <<assign-license-key,assign the license key>> to this user.
. To assign the role to the user, click on the *Edit* button in the *Team Member* section and change the role in the dropdown list.
. To delete the user, click on the *Delete* button next to this user. If the user has a license key, you should unassign the license key from this user before deletion from team members.

[[consulting]]
== Consulting

You can purchase consultancy hours and get support directly from the Jmix team.

[[buy-consulting]]
=== Buy Consulting

. To buy consulting, click on the *Buy consulting* button in the *Balance of hours and incidents* section of the *Account* tab, or switch to the *Store* tab and click on the *Purchase* button there.
+
image::store/buy-consulting.png[align="center", width="811"]

. The page for purchasing consultancy hours opens:
+
image::store/buy-consultancy-hours.png[align="center", width="1262"]

. Select the *Consulting language* and *Number of hours*. Accept the *Jmix Services Agreement*. Click on the *Proceed to billing info* button.

. On the next step, fill in the billing info:
+
image::store/buy-company-subscription-billing-info.png[align="center", width="989"]

. In the *Payment* section, add a valid payment card:
+
image::store/buy-company-subscription-payment.png[align="center", width="989"]

. Verify the total sum and click on the *Complete Purchase* button.

. The instructions on how to set up the communication channels between you and the Jmix team will be sent to your email.

[[consulting-reports]]
=== Reports

Every month, the Jmix team sends a consulting report.

To view reports, click on the *View details* button in the *Balance of hours and incidents* section of the *Account* tab.

image::store/view-reports-consulting.png[align="center", width="989"]

[[invoices]]
== Invoices

[[posted-invoices]]
=== Posted Invoices

Posted invoices are invoices that have not been paid.

image::store/posted-invoices.png[align="center", width="989"]

You can view invoice details before payment. Click on the *Download PDF* button.

To pay the invoice, click on the *Make payment* button.

image::store/pay-invoice.png[align="center", width="522"]

In this dialog, you can add or change the payment card.

Click *OK* to complete your transaction.

[[paid-invoices]]
=== Paid Invoices

In the *Paid Invoices* section of the *Account* tab, you can view all paid invoices and download the details:

image::store/paid-invoices.png[align="center", width="1085"]

//[[billing-info]]
//== Billing Info

//[[payment-method]]
//=== Payment Method
