content/modules/ROOT/pages/setup.adoc, before:

[[setup-jmix-studio]]
= Setup

[[system]]
== Check System Requirements

Make sure your computer meets the following requirements:

* 64-bit operating system: Windows, Linux or macOS.

* Memory – at least 8 GB for development with Jmix Studio (16 GB is recommended).

* Hard drive free space – at least 10 GB.

[[studio]]
== Install Jmix Studio

*Jmix Studio* is implemented as a plugin for IntelliJ IDEA. The minimal supported IntelliJ IDEA version is {minimal-idea-version}.

If you don't have IntelliJ IDEA installed yet, download *Community* edition from the {idea-download-site}[JetBrains website^] and install it.

After IntelliJ IDEA has been installed, do the following:

. Start IntelliJ IDEA ({minimal-idea-version} or newer).
. On the startup screen of the IDE click the *Plugins* button. 
+
If you have any project opened, use the main menu: *File* -> *Settings* (on Windows and Linux) or *IntelliJ IDEA* -> *Preferences* (on macOS). Then switch to the *Plugins* section.
. Switch to the *Marketplace* tab.
. Enter "Jmix" into the search field. You will see the Jmix plugin in the search results.
. Click *Install* and follow the further instructions of the IDE.
+
image::install-plugin.png[align="center"]

In case you need to configure internet access via a proxy server or install non-standard Studio builds, visit the xref:studio:install.adoc#installation[Studio installation] section. 

[[jdk]]
== Install Java Development Kit (JDK)

// note that JDK can be quickly downloaded in the Jmix Project Wizard

Download JDK 11 from https://adoptopenjdk.net[https://adoptopenjdk.net^] and install it to a directory suggested by the installer. This is enough for creating and running applications from the IDE.

NOTE: Jmix supports Java 8 and 11. Pay attention that OpenJ9 JVM is not supported.

To run Jmix applications from the terminal, set `JAVA_HOME` environment variable as described below.

* On *Windows*, create the `JAVA_HOME` variable with the path to the installed JDK root directory at *Computer* -> *Properties* -> *Advanced System Settings* -> *Advanced* -> *Environment variables*. The variable should be added to the *System variables* list.

* On *macOS* and *Linux* set `JAVA_HOME` in `~/.bash_profile` or another appropriate file of your shell, for example:
+
[source,bash]
----
export JAVA_HOME="/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/adoptopenjdk-11.jdk/Contents/Home"
----

* Restart the computer to make sure the environment variable has taken effect.

* Check correctness of the environment variable by running the following command in the console:
+
--

.On Windows
[source,bash]
----
%JAVA_HOME%\bin\java -version
----

.On Linux and macOS
[source,bash]
----
$JAVA_HOME/bin/java -version
----

The command should return the Java version, e.g. `11.0.9.1`.
--

CAUTION: If you connect to the internet via a proxy server, some Java system properties must be passed to the JVM running development tools and Gradle. xref:studio:install.adoc#working-behind-proxy[Configure] these properties using Jmix Studio.

Commit message:

Studio: migrate Subscription Information section #80

content/modules/ROOT/pages/setup.adoc, after:

[[setup-jmix-studio]]
= Setup

[[system]]
== Check System Requirements

Make sure your computer meets the following requirements:

* 64-bit operating system: Windows, Linux or macOS.

* Memory – at least 8 GB for development with Jmix Studio (16 GB is recommended).

* Hard drive free space – at least 10 GB.

[[studio]]
== Install Jmix Studio

*Jmix Studio* is implemented as a plugin for IntelliJ IDEA. The minimal supported IntelliJ IDEA version is {minimal-idea-version}.

If you don't have IntelliJ IDEA installed yet, download *Community* edition from the {idea-download-site}[JetBrains website^] and install it.

After IntelliJ IDEA has been installed, do the following:

. Start IntelliJ IDEA ({minimal-idea-version} or newer).
. On the startup screen of the IDE click the *Plugins* button. 
+
If you have any project opened, use the main menu: *File* -> *Settings* (on Windows and Linux) or *IntelliJ IDEA* -> *Preferences* (on macOS). Then switch to the *Plugins* section.
. Switch to the *Marketplace* tab.
. Enter "Jmix" into the search field. You will see the Jmix plugin in the search results.
. Click *Install* and follow the further instructions of the IDE.
+
image::install-plugin.png[align="center"]

In case you need to configure internet access via a proxy server or install non-standard Studio builds, visit the xref:studio:install.adoc#installation[Studio installation] section. 

NOTE: To have access to the premium Studio features, configure subscription in the xref:studio:subscription.adoc[subscription] dialog window.

[[jdk]]
== Install Java Development Kit (JDK)

// note that JDK can be quickly downloaded in the Jmix Project Wizard

Download JDK 11 from https://adoptopenjdk.net[https://adoptopenjdk.net^] and install it to a directory suggested by the installer. This is enough for creating and running applications from the IDE.

NOTE: Jmix supports Java 8 and 11. Pay attention that OpenJ9 JVM is not supported.

To run Jmix applications from the terminal, set `JAVA_HOME` environment variable as described below.

* On *Windows*, create the `JAVA_HOME` variable with the path to the installed JDK root directory at *Computer* -> *Properties* -> *Advanced System Settings* -> *Advanced* -> *Environment variables*. The variable should be added to the *System variables* list.

* On *macOS* and *Linux* set `JAVA_HOME` in `~/.bash_profile` or another appropriate file of your shell, for example:
+
[source,bash]
----
export JAVA_HOME="/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/adoptopenjdk-11.jdk/Contents/Home"
----

* Restart the computer to make sure the environment variable has taken effect.

* Check correctness of the environment variable by running the following command in the console:
+
--

.On Windows
[source,bash]
----
%JAVA_HOME%\bin\java -version
----

.On Linux and macOS
[source,bash]
----
$JAVA_HOME/bin/java -version
----

The command should return the Java version, e.g. `11.0.9.1`.
--

CAUTION: If you connect to the internet via a proxy server, some Java system properties must be passed to the JVM running development tools and Gradle. xref:studio:install.adoc#working-behind-proxy[Configure] these properties using Jmix Studio.
