content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/miscellaneous/formatter.adoc, before:

= Formatter

`Formatter` is designed to convert some value to its string representation.

WARNING: Formatter should be used with read-only components, such as xref:vc/components/valuePicker.adoc[valuePicker], xref:vc/components/multiValuePicker.adoc[multiValuePicker] and xref:vc/components/entityPicker.adoc[entityPicker]. Editable components values, for example, xref:vc/components/textField.adoc[textField], should be formatted using the xref:data-model:data-types.adoc[Datatype] mechanism.

In a view XML-descriptor, such component formatters can be defined in a nested `formatter` element.

TIP: To add a nested `formatter` element in Jmix Studio, select the component in the view descriptor XML or in the *Jmix UI* hierarchy panel and click on the *Add* button in the *Jmix UI* inspector panel.

Below is an example of adding a formatter to the xref:vc/components/valuePicker.adoc[valuePicker] component:

image::visual-components/add-formatter.png[align="center",width="607"]

The framework contains the set of implementations for the most frequently used formatters, which can be used in your project.

Each formatter is a `Prototype Bean`, and if you want to use formatters from Java code, you need to get them using `ApplicationContext`.

A formatter class can be assigned to a component programmatically by submitting a formatter instance into the component’s `setFormatter()` method.

See the example of setting a formatter programmatically in a view controller in <<number-formatter,Number Formatter>>.

[[number-formatter]]
== Number Formatter

Number formatter is used to format the `Number` value into a string depending on the format string.

It has the following attribute:

* `format` - sets the format string describing the number format, which will be used to create the `DecimalFormat` instance. It can be either a format string or a key in the xref:localization:message-bundles.adoc[message bundle].

Layout descriptor usage:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/formatter/formatter-view.xml[tags=number]
----

Java code usage:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/formatter/FormatterView.java[tags=valueNumberPicker;applicationContext;onInit;setFormatter]
----

[[date-time-formatter]]
== Date and Time Formatter

Date formatter is used to format the `Date` value into a string depending on the format string.

It has the following attributes:

* `format` - sets the format string describing the date format, which will be used to create the `SimpleDateFormat` instance. It can be either a format string or a key in the xref:localization:message-bundles.adoc[message bundle].
* `type` - sets the formatter type, which can have a `DATE` or `DATETIME` value. If it is specified, the value will be formatted using `DateDatatype` or `DateTimeDatatype`, respectively.
* `useUserTimezone` - sets whether the formatter should display the date and time in the current user’s timezone. By default, `DateFormatter` displays the date and time in the server timezone. To show the current user’s timezone, set `true` for the `useUserTimezone` attribute of the formatter.

Layout descriptor usage:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/formatter/formatter-view.xml[tags=date]
----

Java code usage:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/formatter/FormatterView.java[tags=valuePicker;applicationContext;onInit;setDateFormatter]
----

[[collection-formatter]]
== Collection Formatter

Collection formatter is used to format a collection into a string where commas separate the elements of the collection.

[[custom-formatter]]
== Custom Formatter

You can use a custom Java class as a formatter. It should implement the `Formatter` interface.

An example of declaring a custom formatter:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/formatters/CurrencyFormatter.java[tags=CurrencyFormatter]
----

In a view XML-descriptor, a custom formatter can be defined in a nested `custom` element:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/formatter/formatter-view.xml[tags=withCustomFormatter]
----

Example of creating a custom validator programmatically in a view controller:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/formatter/FormatterView.java[tags=entityPicker;onInit;customFormatter]
----

Commit message:

Fix Validator and Formatter sections

content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/miscellaneous/formatter.adoc, after:

= Formatter

`Formatter` is designed to convert some value to its string representation.

NOTE: Formatters can be used only with non-editable components, such as xref:vc/components/valuePicker.adoc[valuePicker], xref:vc/components/multiValuePicker.adoc[multiValuePicker] and xref:vc/components/entityPicker.adoc[entityPicker]. Values of directly editable components, for example, xref:vc/components/textField.adoc[textField], are formatted using the xref:data-model:data-types.adoc[Datatype] mechanism.

The framework contains the set of formatters that can be used in your project.

In a view XML-descriptor, formatters are defined in the `formatter` element nested in the component element.

[TIP]
====
To add a `formatter` to a component in Jmix Studio, select the component in the view XML descriptor or in the *Jmix UI* hierarchy panel and click on the *Add* button in the *Jmix UI* inspector panel.

Below is an example of adding a formatter to the xref:vc/components/valuePicker.adoc[valuePicker] component:

image::visual-components/add-formatter.png[align="center",width="607"]
====

Standard formatters are defined by prototype beans, so if you need to create them in Java, use `ApplicationContext` or `ObjectProvider`. See examples below.

[[number-formatter]]
== Number Formatter

Number formatter presents a number value as a string according to the specified format.

It has the following attribute:

* `format` - a format string to create the `DecimalFormat` instance. It can be either a format string itself or a key in the xref:localization:message-bundles.adoc[message bundle].

Usage in XML:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/formatter/formatter-view.xml[tags=number]
----

Usage in Java:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/formatter/FormatterView.java[tags=valueNumberPicker;applicationContext;onInit;setFormatter]
----

[[date-time-formatter]]
== Date and Time Formatter

Date formatter presents a date and time value as a string according to the specified format.

It has the following attributes:

* `format` - a format string to create the `SimpleDateFormat` instance. It can be either a format string itself or a key in the xref:localization:message-bundles.adoc[message bundle].
* `type` - the formatter type: `DATE` or `DATETIME`. If it is specified, the value will be formatted using `DateDatatype` or `DateTimeDatatype`, respectively.
* `useUserTimezone` - whether the formatter should display the date and time in the current user’s timezone. By default, `DateFormatter` displays the date and time in the server timezone. To show the current user’s timezone, set `true` in this attribute.

Usage in XML:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/formatter/formatter-view.xml[tags=date]
----

Usage in Java:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/formatter/FormatterView.java[tags=valuePicker;applicationContext;onInit;setDateFormatter]
----

[[collection-formatter]]
== Collection Formatter

Collection formatter presents a collection as a string of comma-separated elements of the collection.

[[custom-formatter]]
== Creating Custom Formatters

A custom formatter can be defined by a prototype bean implementing the `Formatter` interface.

Example of creating a custom formatter:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/formatters/CurrencyFormatter.java[tags=CurrencyFormatter]
----

In a view XML descriptor, the custom formatter should be defined in the nested `custom` element. For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/formatter/formatter-view.xml[tags=withCustomFormatter]
----

A formatter can also be defined by a lambda and added programmatically, for example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/formatter/FormatterView.java[tags=entityPicker;onInit;customFormatter]
----
