content/modules/backoffice-ui/pages/vcl/containers/drawer.adoc, before:

= Drawer

++++
<div class="backoffice-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=drawer-sample" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`Drawer` is a collapsible panel that allows you to toggle the content.

image::vcl/containers/drawer.gif[align="center"]

Component's XML-name: `drawer`.

[[basics]]
== Basics

The definition of the drawer in the screen descriptor should have the following structure:

1. xref:vcl/containers/css-layout.adoc[CssLayout] that contains both `drawer` and the rest of the screen layout, with `jmix-drawer-layout` style assigned.
2. The `drawer` itself should include the following containers, those represent:
a. `Drawer` header, with `jmix-drawer-header` style assigned.
//todo add link to SideMenu
b. `Drawer` content, for example, `SideMenu`, with `jmix-drawer-content` style assigned.
c. `Drawer` footer, with `jmix-drawer-footer` style assigned.
3. A xref:vcl/components/button.adoc[button] placed within a `drawer` footer and used to toggle `Drawer` collapsed state.

[[toggle]]
== Toggle

The `toggle()` method expands or collapses the `drawer` depending on its current state. For example, if the `drawer` is already collapsed, it will be expanded after calling the `toggle()` method, and vice versa.

[[is-collapsed]]
You can also check the drawer's current state using the `isCollapsed()` method.

[[attributes]]
== Attributes

[[expand-on-hover]]
* `expandOnHover` attribute sets a mode when the `drawer` is expanded on hover. Note that the collapse state is not changed. The default value is `false`.

[[usage-example]]
== Usage Example

The most common way to use the `drawer` is on the app’s main screen.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/drawer/drawer-screen.xml[tags=drawer]
----

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/containers/drawer/DrawerScreen.java[tags=drawer]
----

<1> Toggle the drawer on the button click.
<2> Change the button icon depending on the drawer state.

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
<<expand-on-hover, expandOnHover>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename]

Commit message:

Document collapsible menu component for main window #6

content/modules/backoffice-ui/pages/vcl/containers/drawer.adoc, after:

= Drawer

++++
<div class="backoffice-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=drawer-sample" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`Drawer` is a collapsible panel that allows users to toggle the content. Typically, it is used as a container for the xref:vcl/components/side-menu.adoc[SideMenu] component.

image::vcl/containers/drawer.gif[align="center"]

Component's XML-name: `drawer`.

[[basics]]
== Basics

The definition of the drawer in the screen descriptor should have the following structure: xref:vcl/containers/css-layout.adoc[CssLayout] contains both `drawer` and the rest of the screen layout (for example, `workArea`), with `jmix-drawer-layout` style assigned.

The `drawer` itself should include the following elements those represent:

* The `Drawer` header is `CssLayout` with `jmix-drawer-header` style assigned.
** A header icon with `app-icon` style assigned.
** A header title with `app-title` style assigned.
* The `Drawer` content, for example, xref:vcl/components/side-menu.adoc[SideMenu], with `jmix-drawer-content` style assigned.
* The `Drawer` footer, with `jmix-drawer-footer` style assigned.
** A xref:vcl/components/button.adoc[button] is placed within a `drawer` footer and used to toggle `Drawer` collapsed state.

[[toggle]]
== Toggle

The `toggle()` method expands or collapses the `drawer` depending on its current state. For example, if the `drawer` is already collapsed, it will be expanded after calling the `toggle()` method, and vice versa.

[[is-collapsed]]
You can also check the drawer's current state using the `isCollapsed()` method.

[[expand-on-hover]]
== Expand on Hover

The `expandOnHover` attribute sets a mode when the `drawer` is expanded on hover. Note that the collapse state is not changed. The default value is `false`.

[[usage-example]]
== Usage Example

The most common way to use the `drawer` is on the app’s xref:screens/root-screens.adoc#main-screen[main screen].

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/drawer/drawer-screen.xml[tags=drawer]
----

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/containers/drawer/DrawerScreen.java[tags=drawer]
----

<1> Toggle the drawer on the button click.
<2> Change the button icon depending on the drawer state.

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
<<expand-on-hover, expandOnHover>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename]
