content/modules/backoffice-ui/pages/vcl/containers/responsive-grid-layout.adoc, before:

= ResponsiveGridLayout

++++
<div class="backoffice-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=responsivegridlayout-equal-width" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`ResponsiveGridLayout` is a container where the components are laid out on a grid, based on Bootstrap's 12 columns grid system (see Bootstrap https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.5/layout/grid[documentation^] for details).

Component's XML-name: `responsiveGridLayout`.

The main feature of this container is that it is fully responsive. The arrangement of the components located inside the `ResponsiveGridLayout` will automatically change depending on the size of the screen.

[CAUTION]
====
Note that `ResponsiveGridLayout` breakpoints are based on minimum width media queries. For example, `@media(min-width: 576px)`. That means that the size is adjusted depending on the browser window's size and not on the size of the container on the screen.
====

[[breakpoints]]
== Grid Breakpoints

The container grid consists of rows and columns. Rows are represented by the `row` element, within which you can declare only columns. Columns are represented by the `col` element, within which you can define xref:vcl/components.adoc[components] or other xref:vcl/containers.adoc[containers].

The entire horizontal space of `ResponsiveGridLayout` is divided into 12 parts of the same width. Each column can take one or more parts, and you can define it separately for different screen sizes (or `breakpoints`, in Bootstrap terminology). Breakpoints are defined by the `xs`, `sm`, `md`, `lg`, `xl` attributes and the value of the attribute sets the width of the column in 1/12 parts for this screen size.

Below is the correspondence between the breakpoints and the screen size:

[[xs]]
1. `xs` - for extra-small screen, with width less than `576px`. The default value in Bootstrap.
+

[[sm]]
2. `sm` - for small screen, with width between `576px` and `768px`.
+

[[md]]
3. `md` - for medium screen, with width between `768px` and `992px`.
+

[[lg]]
4. `lg` - for large screen, with width between `992px` and `1200px`.
+

[[xl]]
5. `xl` - for extra-large screen, with width `1200px` and up.

[NOTE]
Breakpoints are applied hierarchically. For example, `sm` applies to small, medium, large, and extra-large devices, but not extra-small devices, represented by the first `xs` breakpoint.

Usage example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=breakpoints]
----

<1> - This column will take up 6 parts on the small screen and 8 parts on the medium and all larger screens.
<2> - This column will take up 6 parts on the extra-small and all larger screens.

When the width of the screen is between `768px` and `992px`, the content of the `ResponsiveGridLayout` looks like this:

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-breakpoints-1.png[align="center"]

As the screen narrows and width became between `576px` and `768px`, the content will look like this:

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-breakpoints-2.png[align="center"]

And then, when the width became less than `576px`, like this:

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-breakpoints-3.png[align="center"]

[NOTE]
====
For demonstration purposes, we use styles that paint over each cell:

[source,css,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/themes/helium-extended/helium-extended.scss[tags=start;responsive-grid-layout-style;end]
----

To learn more about styles, see the xref:themes/custom_theme.adoc[custom theme] page.
====

[[col-element]]
== Col Element

[[equal-width]]
=== Equal-width

You can define columns without explicit values like `xs="6"`. If `cols` have no explicit values, then every column will be the same width at every breakpoint, from `xs` to `xl`. The column width, in this case, will be equal to the width of the component divided by the number of columns in the row.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=equal-width]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-equal-width.png[align="center"]

[[setting-one-column-width]]
=== Setting One Column Width

If you specify the breakpoint value for only one column, the rest width of the container  will be divided equally between the other columns.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=one-column-width]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-one-column-width.png[align="center"]

[[auto-and-default-width]]
=== Auto and Default Width

Use `{<<breakpoints,breakpoint>>}="AUTO"` attributes to size columns based on the natural `width` of their content.

To create equal-width columns use `{<<breakpoints,breakpoint>>}="DEFAULT"`. This is the default value for the case when no explicit column value is defined.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=variable-width-content]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-variable-width.png[align="center"]

[[row-element]]
== Row Element

[[cols-attributes]]
=== Cols Attributes

The following attributes define the number of columns in the `row` at a specific breakpoint:

[[cols]]
* `cols`

[[cols-lg]]
* `colsLg`

[[cols-md]]
* `colsMd`

[[cols-sm]]
* `colsSm`

[[cols-xl]]
* `colsXl`

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=row-columns-2]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-row-columns.png[align="center"]

[[gutters-enable]]
=== guttersEnable attribute

By default, `guttersEnable="true"`. To disable gutters, use the `guttersEnable` attribute and set it to `false`. It removes the negative margins from the `row` and the horizontal padding from all immediate children columns.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=gutters]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-gutters.png[align="center"]

[[alignment]]
== Alignment

[[vertical]]
=== Vertical Alignment of Row

You can align the entire `row` vertically using the following attributes at a specific breakpoint:

[[align-items]]
* `alignItems`

[[align-items-lg]]
* `alignItemsLg`

[[align-items-md]]
* `alignItemsMd`

[[align-items-sm]]
* `alignItemsSm`

[[align-items-xl]]
* `alignItemsXl`

For the listed above attributes, there are the following possible values:

* `BASELINE` - every `col` in a `row` is aligned as their baselines align.
* `CENTER` - every `col` in a `row` is centered.
* `END` - every `col` in a `row` is aligned to the bottom.
* `START` - every `col` in a `row` is aligned to the top.
* `STRETCH` - every `col` in a `row` is stretched to the full height of the row.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=align-items]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-align-items.png[align="center"]

[[vertical-alignment-of-column]]
=== Vertical Alignment of Column

You can also align the `col` you need using the following attributes at a specific breakpoint:

[[align-self]]
* `alignSelf`

[[align-self-lg]]
* `alignSelfLg`

[[align-self-md]]
* `alignSelfMd`

[[align-self-sm]]
* `alignSelfSm`

[[align-self-xl]]
* `alignSelfXl`

For the listed above attributes, there are the following possible values:

* `AUTO`
* `BASELINE` - `col` is aligned as its baseline is aligned.
* `CENTER` - `col` is centered.
* `END` - `col` is aligned to the bottom.
* `START` - `col` is aligned to the top.
* `STRETCH` - `col` is stretched to the full height of the row.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=align-self]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-align-self.png[align="center"]

[[horizontal-alignment]]
=== Horizontal Alignment

For horizontal alignment, you can use following attributes at a specific breakpoint:

[[justify-content]]
* `justifyContent`

[[justify-content-lg]]
* `justifyContentLg`

[[justify-content-md]]
* `justifyContentMd`

[[justify-content-sm]]
* `justifyContentSm`

[[justify-content-xl]]
* `justifyContentXl`

For the listed above attributes, there are the following possible values:

* `AROUND` - there are indents on the left, right, and between the `cols`.
* `BETWEEN` - there are indents between the `cols`.
* `CENTER` - `cols` inside the `row` are centered.
* `END` - `cols` inside the `row` aligned to the right.
* `START` - `cols` inside the `row` aligned to the left.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=justify-content]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-justify-content.png[align="center"]

[[reordering]]
== Reordering

The following attributes allow you to control the visual order of your content at a specific breakpoint:

[[order]]
* `order`

[[order-lg]]
* `orderLg`

[[order-md]]
* `orderMd`

[[order-sm]]
* `orderSm`

[[order-xl]]
* `orderXl`

As a value for the listed above attributes, you can define either a particular number or one of the predefined values: `FIRST` or `LAST`.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=reordering]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-reordering.png[align="center"]

[[offset-title]]
== Offset

The following attributes allow you to move `cols` to the right at a specific breakpoint:

[[offset]]
* `offset`

[[offset-lg]]
* `offsetLg`

[[offset-md]]
* `offsetMd`

[[offset-sm]]
* `offsetSm`

[[offset-xl]]
* `offsetXl`

The offset will be calculated by multiplying the attribute value to the container's width divided by twelve.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=offset]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-offset.png[align="center"]

[[attributes]]
== Attributes

[[container-type]]
=== containerType

`ResponsiveGridLayout` has two possible types:

* `FLUID` - a full-width container that is spanning the entire width of the breakpoint. This is the default type.
* `FIXED` - once the screen width reaches a certain breakpoint, the `ResponsiveGridLayout` width is set to the following values:
. `xl` - `1140px`
. `lg` - `960px`
. `md` - `720px`
. `sm` - `540px`

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=fixed-fluid]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-grid-layout-fixed.gif[align="center"]

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
<<container-type, containerType>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible]

[[row-attributes]]
=== Row Attributes

<<align-items, alignItems>> -
<<align-items-lg, alignItemsLg>> -
<<align-items-md, alignItemsMd>> -
<<align-items-sm, alignItemsSm>> -
<<align-self-xl, alignItemsXl>> -
<<cols, cols>> -
<<cols-lg, colsLg>> -
<<cols-md, colsMd>> -
<<cols-sm, colsSm>> -
<<cols-xl, colsXl>> -
<<gutters-enable, guttersEnabled>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<justify-content, justifyContent>> -
<<justify-content-lg, justifyContentLg>> -
<<justify-content-md, justifyContentMd>> -
<<justify-content-sm, justifyContentSm>> -
<<justify-content-xl, justifyContentXl>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename]

[[col-attributes]]
=== Col Attributes

<<align-self, alignSelf>> -
<<align-items-lg, alignSelfLg>> -
<<align-items-md, alignSelfMd>> -
<<align-items-sm, alignSelfSm>> -
<<align-self-xl, alignSelfXl>> -
<<lg, lg>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id]
<<md, md>> -
<<offset, offset>> -
<<offset-lg, offsetLg>> -
<<offset-md, offsetMd>> -
<<offset-sm, offsetSm>> -
<<offset-xl, offsetXl>> -
<<reordering, order>> -
<<order-lg, orderLg>> -
<<order-md, orderMd>> -
<<order-sm, orderSm>> -
<<order-xl, orderXl>> -
<<sm, sm>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
<<xl, xl>> -
<<xs, xs>>

Commit message:

Default Bootstrap Styles in ResponsiveGridLayout #209

content/modules/backoffice-ui/pages/vcl/containers/responsive-grid-layout.adoc, after:

= ResponsiveGridLayout

++++
<div class="backoffice-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=responsivegridlayout-equal-width" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`ResponsiveGridLayout` is a container where the components are laid out on a grid, based on Bootstrap's 12 columns grid system (see Bootstrap https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.5/layout/grid[documentation^] for details).

Component's XML-name: `responsiveGridLayout`.

The main feature of this container is that it is fully responsive. The arrangement of the components located inside the `ResponsiveGridLayout` will automatically change depending on the size of the screen.

[CAUTION]
====
Note that `ResponsiveGridLayout` breakpoints are based on minimum width media queries. For example, `@media(min-width: 576px)`. That means that the size is adjusted depending on the browser window's size and not on the size of the container on the screen.
====

[[breakpoints]]
== Grid Breakpoints

The container grid consists of rows and columns. Rows are represented by the `row` element, within which you can declare only columns. Columns are represented by the `col` element, within which you can define xref:vcl/components.adoc[components] or other xref:vcl/containers.adoc[containers].

The entire horizontal space of `ResponsiveGridLayout` is divided into 12 parts of the same width. Each column can take one or more parts, and you can define it separately for different screen sizes (or `breakpoints`, in Bootstrap terminology). Breakpoints are defined by the `xs`, `sm`, `md`, `lg`, `xl` attributes and the value of the attribute sets the width of the column in 1/12 parts for this screen size.

Below is the correspondence between the breakpoints and the screen size:

[[xs]]
1. `xs` - for extra-small screen, with width less than `576px`. The default value in Bootstrap.
+

[[sm]]
2. `sm` - for small screen, with width between `576px` and `768px`.
+

[[md]]
3. `md` - for medium screen, with width between `768px` and `992px`.
+

[[lg]]
4. `lg` - for large screen, with width between `992px` and `1200px`.
+

[[xl]]
5. `xl` - for extra-large screen, with width `1200px` and up.

[NOTE]
Breakpoints are applied hierarchically. For example, `sm` applies to small, medium, large, and extra-large devices, but not extra-small devices, represented by the first `xs` breakpoint.

Usage example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=breakpoints]
----

<1> - This column will take up 6 parts on the small screen and 8 parts on the medium and all larger screens.
<2> - This column will take up 6 parts on the extra-small and all larger screens.

When the width of the screen is between `768px` and `992px`, the content of the `ResponsiveGridLayout` looks like this:

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-breakpoints-1.png[align="center"]

As the screen narrows and width became between `576px` and `768px`, the content will look like this:

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-breakpoints-2.png[align="center"]

And then, when the width became less than `576px`, like this:

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-breakpoints-3.png[align="center"]

[NOTE]
====
For demonstration purposes, we use styles that paint over each cell:

[source,css,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/themes/helium-extended/helium-extended.scss[tags=start;responsive-grid-layout-style;end]
----

To learn more about styles, see the xref:themes/custom_theme.adoc[custom theme] page.
====

[[col-element]]
== Col Element

[[equal-width]]
=== Equal-width

You can define columns without explicit values like `xs="6"`. If `cols` have no explicit values, then every column will be the same width at every breakpoint, from `xs` to `xl`. The column width, in this case, will be equal to the width of the component divided by the number of columns in the row.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=equal-width]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-equal-width.png[align="center"]

[[setting-one-column-width]]
=== Setting One Column Width

If you specify the breakpoint value for only one column, the rest width of the container  will be divided equally between the other columns.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=one-column-width]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-one-column-width.png[align="center"]

[[auto-and-default-width]]
=== Auto and Default Width

Use `{<<breakpoints,breakpoint>>}="AUTO"` attributes to size columns based on the natural `width` of their content.

To create equal-width columns use `{<<breakpoints,breakpoint>>}="DEFAULT"`. This is the default value for the case when no explicit column value is defined.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=variable-width-content]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-variable-width.png[align="center"]

[[row-element]]
== Row Element

[[cols-attributes]]
=== Cols Attributes

The following attributes define the number of columns in the `row` at a specific breakpoint:

[[cols]]
* `cols`

[[cols-lg]]
* `colsLg`

[[cols-md]]
* `colsMd`

[[cols-sm]]
* `colsSm`

[[cols-xl]]
* `colsXl`

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=row-columns-2]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-row-columns.png[align="center"]

[[gutters-enable]]
=== guttersEnable attribute

By default, `guttersEnable="true"`. To disable gutters, use the `guttersEnable` attribute and set it to `false`. It removes the negative margins from the `row` and the horizontal padding from all immediate children columns.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=gutters]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-gutters.png[align="center"]

[[alignment]]
== Alignment

[[vertical]]
=== Vertical Alignment of Row

You can align the entire `row` vertically using the following attributes at a specific breakpoint:

[[align-items]]
* `alignItems`

[[align-items-lg]]
* `alignItemsLg`

[[align-items-md]]
* `alignItemsMd`

[[align-items-sm]]
* `alignItemsSm`

[[align-items-xl]]
* `alignItemsXl`

For the listed above attributes, there are the following possible values:

* `BASELINE` - every `col` in a `row` is aligned as their baselines align.
* `CENTER` - every `col` in a `row` is centered.
* `END` - every `col` in a `row` is aligned to the bottom.
* `START` - every `col` in a `row` is aligned to the top.
* `STRETCH` - every `col` in a `row` is stretched to the full height of the row.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=align-items]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-align-items.png[align="center"]

[[vertical-alignment-of-column]]
=== Vertical Alignment of Column

You can also align the `col` you need using the following attributes at a specific breakpoint:

[[align-self]]
* `alignSelf`

[[align-self-lg]]
* `alignSelfLg`

[[align-self-md]]
* `alignSelfMd`

[[align-self-sm]]
* `alignSelfSm`

[[align-self-xl]]
* `alignSelfXl`

For the listed above attributes, there are the following possible values:

* `AUTO`
* `BASELINE` - `col` is aligned as its baseline is aligned.
* `CENTER` - `col` is centered.
* `END` - `col` is aligned to the bottom.
* `START` - `col` is aligned to the top.
* `STRETCH` - `col` is stretched to the full height of the row.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=align-self]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-align-self.png[align="center"]

[[horizontal-alignment]]
=== Horizontal Alignment

For horizontal alignment, you can use following attributes at a specific breakpoint:

[[justify-content]]
* `justifyContent`

[[justify-content-lg]]
* `justifyContentLg`

[[justify-content-md]]
* `justifyContentMd`

[[justify-content-sm]]
* `justifyContentSm`

[[justify-content-xl]]
* `justifyContentXl`

For the listed above attributes, there are the following possible values:

* `AROUND` - there are indents on the left, right, and between the `cols`.
* `BETWEEN` - there are indents between the `cols`.
* `CENTER` - `cols` inside the `row` are centered.
* `END` - `cols` inside the `row` aligned to the right.
* `START` - `cols` inside the `row` aligned to the left.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=justify-content]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-justify-content.png[align="center"]

[[reordering]]
== Reordering

The following attributes allow you to control the visual order of your content at a specific breakpoint:

[[order]]
* `order`

[[order-lg]]
* `orderLg`

[[order-md]]
* `orderMd`

[[order-sm]]
* `orderSm`

[[order-xl]]
* `orderXl`

As a value for the listed above attributes, you can define either a particular number or one of the predefined values: `FIRST` or `LAST`.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=reordering]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-reordering.png[align="center"]

[[offset-title]]
== Offset

The following attributes allow you to move `cols` to the right at a specific breakpoint:

[[offset]]
* `offset`

[[offset-lg]]
* `offsetLg`

[[offset-md]]
* `offsetMd`

[[offset-sm]]
* `offsetSm`

[[offset-xl]]
* `offsetXl`

The offset will be calculated by multiplying the attribute value to the container's width divided by twelve.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=offset]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-layout-offset.png[align="center"]

[[default-bootstrap-styles]]
== Default Bootstap Styles

You can also use default bootstrap styles via the `stylename` attribute. For example, with the `pl` value, you can set padding-left, with `pt` value, you can set padding-top, and so on. See all possible values on the https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/utilities/spacing/#notation[bootstrap spacing^] page.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=responsive-classes]
----

[[attributes]]
== Attributes

[[container-type]]
=== containerType

`ResponsiveGridLayout` has two possible types:

* `FLUID` - a full-width container that is spanning the entire width of the breakpoint. This is the default type.
* `FIXED` - once the screen width reaches a certain breakpoint, the `ResponsiveGridLayout` width is set to the following values:
. `xl` - `1140px`
. `lg` - `960px`
. `md` - `720px`
. `sm` - `540px`

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/responsivegridlayout/responsive-grid-layout-screen.xml[tags=fixed-fluid]
----

image::vcl/containers/responsive-grid-layout-fixed.gif[align="center"]

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
<<container-type, containerType>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible]

[[row-attributes]]
=== Row Attributes

<<align-items, alignItems>> -
<<align-items-lg, alignItemsLg>> -
<<align-items-md, alignItemsMd>> -
<<align-items-sm, alignItemsSm>> -
<<align-self-xl, alignItemsXl>> -
<<cols, cols>> -
<<cols-lg, colsLg>> -
<<cols-md, colsMd>> -
<<cols-sm, colsSm>> -
<<cols-xl, colsXl>> -
<<gutters-enable, guttersEnabled>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<justify-content, justifyContent>> -
<<justify-content-lg, justifyContentLg>> -
<<justify-content-md, justifyContentMd>> -
<<justify-content-sm, justifyContentSm>> -
<<justify-content-xl, justifyContentXl>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename]

[[col-attributes]]
=== Col Attributes

<<align-self, alignSelf>> -
<<align-items-lg, alignSelfLg>> -
<<align-items-md, alignSelfMd>> -
<<align-items-sm, alignSelfSm>> -
<<align-self-xl, alignSelfXl>> -
<<lg, lg>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id]
<<md, md>> -
<<offset, offset>> -
<<offset-lg, offsetLg>> -
<<offset-md, offsetMd>> -
<<offset-sm, offsetSm>> -
<<offset-xl, offsetXl>> -
<<reordering, order>> -
<<order-lg, orderLg>> -
<<order-md, orderMd>> -
<<order-sm, orderSm>> -
<<order-xl, orderXl>> -
<<sm, sm>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
<<xl, xl>> -
<<xs, xs>>
