content/modules/maps/pages/data-binding-map.adoc, before:

= 1. Bind Map to Data

In this chapter, you will create:

* The `LocationType` enumeration.
* The `Location` entity with the `GeoPoint` attribute type.
* CRUD views with a map on the `Location.detail` view.

[[entity-and-views-creation]]
== Create Location Entity and Views

To start, we'll generate a `LocationType` enumeration consisting of two values: `Office` and `Coworking`. The detailed instructions for creating enumerations can be found in the xref:tutorial:enumerations.adoc[Using Enumerations] section of Tutorial.

image::enumeration-location-type.png[align="center", width="591"]

Next, create the `Location` entity. You can find detailed instructions for creating entities in the xref:tutorial:simple-crud.adoc[Simple CRUD] section of the Tutorial.

Select the *Traits → Versioned* checkbox in the *New JPA Entity* dialog.

image::new-location-entity-dialog.png[align="center", width="493"]

The `Location` entity has the following attributes:

* `city` with `String` type. Select the *Mandatory* checkbox.
* `address` with `String` type. Select the *Mandatory* checkbox.
* `type` with `LocationType` enumeration type.
* `building` with `GeoPoint` type. Select the *Mandatory* checkbox:
+
image::geo-point-attribute.png[align="center", width="862"]

Define the `address` attribute for generating an xref:studio:entity-designer.adoc#creating-instance-name[instance name].

Create CRUD views for the `Location` entity. You'll find the detailed steps for generating entity list and detail views in the xref:tutorial:simple-crud.adoc#create-views[Creating CRUD Views] section of the Tutorial.

Follow the suggested values at each step of the view creation wizard.

Studio will automatically generate two views: `Location.list` and `Location.detail`, and open their corresponding source code.

[[adding-map]]
== Add Map on View

Locate `location-detail-view.xml` in the *Jmix* tool window and double-click it. The view designer will appear:

image::location-detail-view.png[align="center", width="1318"]

You'll notice that the `textField` component is being used to show the `building` attribute.

If you want to display a map on the view, you should include the `geoMap` UI component in the XML descriptor.

Place the cursor after the `formLayout` element.

Next, click *Add Component* in the actions panel, then find the `GeoMap` item and double-click it.

image::adding-map.png[align="center", width="1136"]

The new `geoMap` element will be added beneath the `formLayout` element in both the *Jmix UI* hierarchy panel and in the XML. Configure the `id`, `height` and `width` attributes as shown below.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
<maps:geoMap id="map" height="100%" width="100%"/>
----

[[adding-tile-layer]]
=== Add Tile Layer with OsmSource

We're going to utilize a raster layer as the base background layer of the map. For this, we'll use `OsmSource`, a pre-defined source for displaying https://wiki.openstreetmap.org[OpenStreetMap^] tiles.

Select `map` in the *Jmix UI* hierarchy panel or in the view XML descriptor, then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, choose *Layers -> TileLayer*.

image::add-tile-layer.png[align="center", width="331"]

Select `maps:tile` in the *Jmix UI* hierarchy panel or in the view XML descriptor, and then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, choose *OsmSource*.

image::add-osmsource.png[align="center", width="898"]

Now, let's run the application to see the new feature in action.

Click the *Debug* button (image:start-debugger.svg[]) in the main toolbar.

Prior to launching the application, Studio compares the project data model with the database schema. When you've created a new entity, Studio automatically generates a Liquibase changelog to reflect the relevant database modifications (such as creating the `LOCATION` table):

image::changelog-location.png[align="center", width="1036"]

Once the application is up and running, navigate to http://localhost:8080 using your web browser and sign in to the application with the credentials admin/admin.

Click *Save and run*.

Studio will carry out the changelog on your database, followed by building and running the application:

image::run-app.png[align="center", width="1101"]

Once the application is up and running, navigate to `++http://localhost:8080++` using your web browser and sign in to the application with the credentials `admin/admin`.

Choose the `Locations` item from the `Application` menu. You will see the `Location.list` view. Click *Create*. The `Location.detail` view will open:

image::location-detail1.png[align="center", width="1134"]

[[setting-map-view]]
=== Set Map View

By default, the `geoMap` component displays a world map with an initial geographical center at `(0,0)`.

We will employ the map view to configure the location displayed on the map.

Choose `map` within the *Jmix UI* hierarchy panel or in the view XML descriptor, and then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, opt for *MapView*.

image::add-map-view.png[align="center", width="372"]

Specify the `centerY` attribute:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
<maps:mapView centerY="51.0"/>
----

Choose `maps:mapView` in the *Jmix UI* hierarchy panel or in the view XML descriptor, and then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, select *Extent*, and configure the `minX`, `minY`, `maxX` and `maxY` attributes as indicated below.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
<maps:extent minX="-15.0"
             minY="30.0"
             maxX="40.0"
             maxY="60.0"/>
----

The extent limits the view, meaning that nothing beyond this extent will be visible on the map.

Launch the application to see the new feature in action.

[[adding-data-layer]]
=== Add Vector Layer with DataVectorSource

To handle geo-objects, we'll incorporate a vector layer.

Navigate to `maps:layers` in the *Jmix UI* hierarchy panel or in the view XML descriptor, and click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, opt for *VectorLayer*. Specify the `id` attribute as follows: `id="vectorLayer"`.

We'll utilize `DataVectorSource`, which supports data binding with Jmix data containers.

Choose `vectorLayer` in the *Jmix UI* hierarchy panel or in the view XML descriptor, and then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, opt for *DataVectorSource*. Configure the `dataContainer` attribute for it:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
<maps:vector id="vectorLayer">
    <maps:dataVectorSource id="dataVectorSource"
                           dataContainer="locationDc"
                           property="building"/>
</maps:vector>
----

Let's take a look: the complete description of our map is as follows:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex1/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/location/location-detail-view.xml[tags=geoMap]
----

[[saving-coordinates]]
== Save Coordinates to Building Attribute

When HR manager creates a location, they click on a spot on the map, which is then stored in the `Location` entity as a `Point` with coordinates.

Let's proceed to add a `ClickEvent` for our map.

Choose `map` in the *Jmix UI* hierarchy panel or in the view XML descriptor, switch to the *Handlers* tab, and create a `MapClickEvent` handler method:

image::add-click-event.png[align="center", width="1044"]

Add the logic of obtaining and storing the user's selected coordinates to the `map` click handler method:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex1/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/location/LocationDetailView.java[tags=view;geometryFactory;MapClickEvent]
----
<1> To obtain `GeometryFactory` use `GeometryUtils` - a specialized utility class with functions related to the JTS library.
<2> Convert the coordinates obtained from an `event` into a `Point` object by employing the `GeometryFactory` method.
<3> Use the `getEditedEntity()` method of the base `StandardDetailView` class to get the `Location` being edited.

Launch the application. Select the `Locations` item in the `Application` menu to access the `Location.list` view. Click *Create* to open the `Location.detail` view. Fill in the *City*, *Address* and *Type* fields with the relevant information. Click on the map at the specified address location. The value for the *Building* field will be automatically populated based on the coordinates of the selected point on the map. Save the location by clicking *OK*.

image::location-detail2.png[align="center", width="1134"]

Commit message:

The name of the Jmix Hierarchy panel has been changed to Jmix Structure

content/modules/maps/pages/data-binding-map.adoc, after:

= 1. Bind Map to Data

In this chapter, you will create:

* The `LocationType` enumeration.
* The `Location` entity with the `GeoPoint` attribute type.
* CRUD views with a map on the `Location.detail` view.

[[entity-and-views-creation]]
== Create Location Entity and Views

To start, we'll generate a `LocationType` enumeration consisting of two values: `Office` and `Coworking`. The detailed instructions for creating enumerations can be found in the xref:tutorial:enumerations.adoc[Using Enumerations] section of Tutorial.

image::enumeration-location-type.png[align="center", width="591"]

Next, create the `Location` entity. You can find detailed instructions for creating entities in the xref:tutorial:simple-crud.adoc[Simple CRUD] section of the Tutorial.

Select the *Traits → Versioned* checkbox in the *New JPA Entity* dialog.

image::new-location-entity-dialog.png[align="center", width="493"]

The `Location` entity has the following attributes:

* `city` with `String` type. Select the *Mandatory* checkbox.
* `address` with `String` type. Select the *Mandatory* checkbox.
* `type` with `LocationType` enumeration type.
* `building` with `GeoPoint` type. Select the *Mandatory* checkbox:
+
image::geo-point-attribute.png[align="center", width="862"]

Define the `address` attribute for generating an xref:studio:entity-designer.adoc#creating-instance-name[instance name].

Create CRUD views for the `Location` entity. You'll find the detailed steps for generating entity list and detail views in the xref:tutorial:simple-crud.adoc#create-views[Creating CRUD Views] section of the Tutorial.

Follow the suggested values at each step of the view creation wizard.

Studio will automatically generate two views: `Location.list` and `Location.detail`, and open their corresponding source code.

[[adding-map]]
== Add Map on View

Locate `location-detail-view.xml` in the *Jmix* tool window and double-click it. The view designer will appear:

image::location-detail-view.png[align="center", width="1318"]

You'll notice that the `textField` component is being used to show the `building` attribute.

If you want to display a map on the view, you should include the `geoMap` UI component in the XML descriptor.

Place the cursor after the `formLayout` element.

Next, click *Add Component* in the actions panel, then find the `GeoMap` item and double-click it.

image::adding-map.png[align="center", width="1136"]

The new `geoMap` element will be added beneath the `formLayout` element in both the *Jmix UI* structure panel and in the XML. Configure the `id`, `height` and `width` attributes as shown below.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
<maps:geoMap id="map" height="100%" width="100%"/>
----

[[adding-tile-layer]]
=== Add Tile Layer with OsmSource

We're going to utilize a raster layer as the base background layer of the map. For this, we'll use `OsmSource`, a pre-defined source for displaying https://wiki.openstreetmap.org[OpenStreetMap^] tiles.

Select `map` in the *Jmix UI* structure panel or in the view XML descriptor, then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, choose *Layers -> TileLayer*.

image::add-tile-layer.png[align="center", width="331"]

Select `maps:tile` in the *Jmix UI* structure panel or in the view XML descriptor, and then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, choose *OsmSource*.

image::add-osmsource.png[align="center", width="898"]

Now, let's run the application to see the new feature in action.

Click the *Debug* button (image:start-debugger.svg[]) in the main toolbar.

Prior to launching the application, Studio compares the project data model with the database schema. When you've created a new entity, Studio automatically generates a Liquibase changelog to reflect the relevant database modifications (such as creating the `LOCATION` table):

image::changelog-location.png[align="center", width="1036"]

Once the application is up and running, navigate to http://localhost:8080 using your web browser and sign in to the application with the credentials admin/admin.

Click *Save and run*.

Studio will carry out the changelog on your database, followed by building and running the application:

image::run-app.png[align="center", width="1101"]

Once the application is up and running, navigate to `++http://localhost:8080++` using your web browser and sign in to the application with the credentials `admin/admin`.

Choose the `Locations` item from the `Application` menu. You will see the `Location.list` view. Click *Create*. The `Location.detail` view will open:

image::location-detail1.png[align="center", width="1134"]

[[setting-map-view]]
=== Set Map View

By default, the `geoMap` component displays a world map with an initial geographical center at `(0,0)`.

We will employ the map view to configure the location displayed on the map.

Choose `map` within the *Jmix UI* structure panel or in the view XML descriptor, and then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, opt for *MapView*.

image::add-map-view.png[align="center", width="372"]

Specify the `centerY` attribute:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
<maps:mapView centerY="51.0"/>
----

Choose `maps:mapView` in the *Jmix UI* structure panel or in the view XML descriptor, and then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, select *Extent*, and configure the `minX`, `minY`, `maxX` and `maxY` attributes as indicated below.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
<maps:extent minX="-15.0"
             minY="30.0"
             maxX="40.0"
             maxY="60.0"/>
----

The extent limits the view, meaning that nothing beyond this extent will be visible on the map.

Launch the application to see the new feature in action.

[[adding-data-layer]]
=== Add Vector Layer with DataVectorSource

To handle geo-objects, we'll incorporate a vector layer.

Navigate to `maps:layers` in the *Jmix UI* structure panel or in the view XML descriptor, and click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, opt for *VectorLayer*. Specify the `id` attribute as follows: `id="vectorLayer"`.

We'll utilize `DataVectorSource`, which supports data binding with Jmix data containers.

Choose `vectorLayer` in the *Jmix UI* structure panel or in the view XML descriptor, and then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, opt for *DataVectorSource*. Configure the `dataContainer` attribute for it:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
<maps:vector id="vectorLayer">
    <maps:dataVectorSource id="dataVectorSource"
                           dataContainer="locationDc"
                           property="building"/>
</maps:vector>
----

Let's take a look: the complete description of our map is as follows:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex1/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/location/location-detail-view.xml[tags=geoMap]
----

[[saving-coordinates]]
== Save Coordinates to Building Attribute

When HR manager creates a location, they click on a spot on the map, which is then stored in the `Location` entity as a `Point` with coordinates.

Let's proceed to add a `ClickEvent` for our map.

Choose `map` in the *Jmix UI* structure panel or in the view XML descriptor, switch to the *Handlers* tab, and create a `MapClickEvent` handler method:

image::add-click-event.png[align="center", width="1044"]

Add the logic of obtaining and storing the user's selected coordinates to the `map` click handler method:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex1/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/location/LocationDetailView.java[tags=view;geometryFactory;MapClickEvent]
----
<1> To obtain `GeometryFactory` use `GeometryUtils` - a specialized utility class with functions related to the JTS library.
<2> Convert the coordinates obtained from an `event` into a `Point` object by employing the `GeometryFactory` method.
<3> Use the `getEditedEntity()` method of the base `StandardDetailView` class to get the `Location` being edited.

Launch the application. Select the `Locations` item in the `Application` menu to access the `Location.list` view. Click *Create* to open the `Location.detail` view. Fill in the *City*, *Address* and *Type* fields with the relevant information. Click on the map at the specified address location. The value for the *Building* field will be automatically populated based on the coordinates of the selected point on the map. Save the location by clicking *OK*.

image::location-detail2.png[align="center", width="1134"]
