content/modules/maps/pages/map-component.adoc, before:

= Map Component

The `GeoMap` UI component displays a geographical data provided by xref:maps:layers-sources.adoc[Layers].

The map is built by superposing layers. Initially, map does not have layers.

You can define the general map parameters along with the layers in the view’s XML descriptor.

[[map]]
== Map

To add the component on the view, use Jmix Studio.

Click *Add Component* in the actions panel, then find the `GeoMap` item and double-click it.

image::adding-map.png[align="center", width="1136"]

The new `geoMap` element will be added in both the *Jmix UI* hierarchy panel and in the XML. You can configure attributes like xref:flow-ui:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id], xref:flow-ui:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height], xref:flow-ui:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width], etc., in the same way as it is done for other xref:flow-ui:vc/components.adoc[UI components].

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
<maps:geoMap id="map"
             height="100%"
             width="100%"/>
----

If you don’t use the view designer, declare the `maps` namespace in your view’s XML descriptor manually:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex2/src/main/resources/com/company/mapssample/view/mapbasic/map-basic-view.xml[tags=xmlns]
----

[[how-to-inject]]
You can inject the UI component or a map layer into the controller by utilizing the *Inject to Controller* action in the *Jmix UI Hierarchy* panel:

image::inject-map-from-hierarchy.png[align="center", width="368"]

Alternatively, you can employ the *Inject* button available in the actions panel:

image::inject-map.png[align="center", width="682"]

NOTE: For the component to be injectable into the controller, it must have the `id` attribute specified.

Now you can interact with the `GeoMap` component programmatically by accessing its methods directly:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex2/src/main/java/com/company/mapssample/view/mapbasic/MapBasicView.java[tags=geoMap;onInit]
----

[[layer]]
== Layer

The `GeoMap` component can include multiple xref:maps:layers-sources.adoc[layers] that display different types of geographic information, such as raster layers, and vector layers.

Initially, map does not have layers.

For example, let's add a xref:maps:layers-sources.adoc#tile-layer[TileLayer] to the map.

Select the `geoMap` element in the *Jmix UI* hierarchy panel or in the view XML descriptor, then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, choose *Layers -> TileLayer*.

image::add-tile-layer.png[align="center", width="331"]

You can <<how-to-inject,inject>> a layer into the controller and interact with it programmatically by accessing its methods directly:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex2/src/main/java/com/company/mapssample/view/mapbasic/MapBasicView.java[tags=mapTile;onInit]
----

[[source]]
== Source

A xref:maps:layers-sources.adoc[source] represents the data that is used to render map layers on the map component. Sources provide the spatial information that defines the content and appearance of the map layers.

For example, let's add a xref:maps:layers-sources.adoc#osm-source[OsmSource] for the tile layer.

Select `maps:tile` in the *Jmix UI* hierarchy panel or in the view XML descriptor, and then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, choose *OsmSource*.

image::add-osmsource.png[align="center", width="898"]

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex2/src/main/resources/com/company/mapssample/view/mapbasic/map-basic-view.xml[tags=osmSource]
----

You can <<how-to-inject,inject>> a source into the controller and interact with it programmatically by accessing its methods directly:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex2/src/main/java/com/company/mapssample/view/mapbasic/MapBasicView.java[tags=osmSource;onInit]
----
// You can specify additional parameters:
//
// * `attributions` - information about copyrights and licences that need to be displayed on the map when using data from that source. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_source_Source-Source.html[Source^].
// * `cacheSize` - the tile cacheSize. Note, the `cacheSize` attribute is set only at creation time and cannot be changed at runtime. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_source_Tile-TileSource.html[TileSource^].
// * `crossOrigin` is used for loaded images. Note, `crossOrigin` is set only at creation time and cannot be changed at runtime. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_source_OSM-OSM.html[OSM^].
// * `maxZoom` sets the maximum zoom level. The default value is 42. Note, the `maxZoom` attribute is set only at creation time and cannot be changed at runtime. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_source_XYZ-XYZ.html[XYZ^].
// * `opaque` sets whether the layer is opaque. The default value is `true`. Note, the `opaque` attribute is set only at creation time and cannot be changed at runtime. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_source_OSM-OSM.html[OSM].
// * `url` sets the URL template. Must include \{x}, \{y} or {-y}, and \{z} placeholders. The default value is `++https://tile.openstreetmap.org/{z}/{x}/{y}.png++`. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_source_OSM-OSM.html[OSM^].
// * `wrapX` sets whether the source should be looped along the X coordinate. The default value for `Source` is `false`. Note, the `wrapX` attribute is set only at creation time and cannot be changed at runtime. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_source_Source-Source.html[Source^].

[[view]]
== View

https://openlayers.org/en/v8.2.0/apidoc/module-ol_View-View.html[View^] defines how the map is displayed in terms of its center, zoom level, rotation, and projection. It essentially sets the initial state of the map when it is loaded in the user interface.

By default, the `geoMap` component displays a world map with an initial geographical center at `(0,0)`.

Choose `geoMap` within the *Jmix UI* hierarchy panel or in the view XML descriptor, and then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, opt for *MapView*.

image::add-map-view.png[align="center", width="372"]

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex2/src/main/resources/com/company/mapssample/view/mapbasic/map-basic-view.xml[tags=mapView]
----

You can specify additional parameters:

* `centerX` defines latitude of the initial geographical center of the map. It is passed to the `org.locationtech.jts.geom.Coordinate` object.
* `centerY` defines longitude of the initial geographical center of the map. It is passed to the `org.locationtech.jts.geom.Coordinate` object.
* `maxZoom` - sets the maximum zoom level for the view.
//The default value is 28. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_View-View.html#setMaxZoom[setMaxZoom^].
* `minZoom` - sets a minimum zoom level for the view.
//The default value is 0. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_View-View.html#setMinZoom[setMinZoom^].
* `projection` refers to the coordinate reference system in which the map is displayed. Common projections include `EPSG:3857` and `EPSG:4326`. The default projection is https://epsg.io/3857[EPSG:3857^]. You can set a custom projection in the special inner `projection` element. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.2.0/apidoc/module-ol_proj_Projection-Projection.html[Projection^].
* `rotation` - sets the rotation for the view in radians (positive rotation clockwise, 0 means North). For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.2.0/apidoc/module-ol_View-View.html#setRotation[setRotation^].
* `zoom` defines the specific zoom level. The zoom level begins at 0, representing the maximum zoomed-out view, and progressively rises as you zoom in for a closer perspective.

[[extent]]
== Extent

The https://openlayers.org/en/v8.2.0/apidoc/module-ol_extent.html#~Extent[extent^] specifies the geographic boundaries of the map <<view,view>> or a specific <<layer,layer>> in terms of coordinates, defining the visible area on the map.

Extent is typically defined by minimum (top-left corner) and maximum (bottom-right corner) coordinate values in the form of [`minX`, `minY`, `maxX`, `maxY`], representing the bounding box of the area.

Choose a layer or the `mapView` element in the *Jmix UI* hierarchy panel or in the view XML descriptor, and then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, select *Extent*, and configure the `minX`, `minY`, `maxX` and `maxY` attributes as indicated below.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex2/src/main/resources/com/company/mapssample/view/mapbasic/map-basic-view.xml[tags=extent]
----

Commit message:

The name of the Jmix Hierarchy panel has been changed to Jmix Structure

content/modules/maps/pages/map-component.adoc, after:

= Map Component

The `GeoMap` UI component displays a geographical data provided by xref:maps:layers-sources.adoc[Layers].

The map is built by superposing layers. Initially, map does not have layers.

You can define the general map parameters along with the layers in the view’s XML descriptor.

[[map]]
== Map

To add the component on the view, use Jmix Studio.

Click *Add Component* in the actions panel, then find the `GeoMap` item and double-click it.

image::adding-map.png[align="center", width="1136"]

The new `geoMap` element will be added in both the *Jmix UI* structure panel and in the XML. You can configure attributes like xref:flow-ui:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id], xref:flow-ui:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height], xref:flow-ui:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width], etc., in the same way as it is done for other xref:flow-ui:vc/components.adoc[UI components].

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
<maps:geoMap id="map"
             height="100%"
             width="100%"/>
----

If you don’t use the view designer, declare the `maps` namespace in your view’s XML descriptor manually:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex2/src/main/resources/com/company/mapssample/view/mapbasic/map-basic-view.xml[tags=xmlns]
----

[[how-to-inject]]
You can inject the UI component or a map layer into the controller by utilizing the *Inject to Controller* action in the *Jmix UI* structure panel:

image::inject-map-from-hierarchy.png[align="center", width="368"]

Alternatively, you can employ the *Inject* button available in the actions panel:

image::inject-map.png[align="center", width="682"]

NOTE: For the component to be injectable into the controller, it must have the `id` attribute specified.

Now you can interact with the `GeoMap` component programmatically by accessing its methods directly:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex2/src/main/java/com/company/mapssample/view/mapbasic/MapBasicView.java[tags=geoMap;onInit]
----

[[layer]]
== Layer

The `GeoMap` component can include multiple xref:maps:layers-sources.adoc[layers] that display different types of geographic information, such as raster layers, and vector layers.

Initially, map does not have layers.

For example, let's add a xref:maps:layers-sources.adoc#tile-layer[TileLayer] to the map.

Select the `geoMap` element in the *Jmix UI* structure panel or in the view XML descriptor, then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, choose *Layers -> TileLayer*.

image::add-tile-layer.png[align="center", width="331"]

You can <<how-to-inject,inject>> a layer into the controller and interact with it programmatically by accessing its methods directly:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex2/src/main/java/com/company/mapssample/view/mapbasic/MapBasicView.java[tags=mapTile;onInit]
----

[[source]]
== Source

A xref:maps:layers-sources.adoc[source] represents the data that is used to render map layers on the map component. Sources provide the spatial information that defines the content and appearance of the map layers.

For example, let's add a xref:maps:layers-sources.adoc#osm-source[OsmSource] for the tile layer.

Select `maps:tile` in the *Jmix UI* structure panel or in the view XML descriptor, and then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, choose *OsmSource*.

image::add-osmsource.png[align="center", width="898"]

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex2/src/main/resources/com/company/mapssample/view/mapbasic/map-basic-view.xml[tags=osmSource]
----

You can <<how-to-inject,inject>> a source into the controller and interact with it programmatically by accessing its methods directly:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex2/src/main/java/com/company/mapssample/view/mapbasic/MapBasicView.java[tags=osmSource;onInit]
----
// You can specify additional parameters:
//
// * `attributions` - information about copyrights and licences that need to be displayed on the map when using data from that source. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_source_Source-Source.html[Source^].
// * `cacheSize` - the tile cacheSize. Note, the `cacheSize` attribute is set only at creation time and cannot be changed at runtime. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_source_Tile-TileSource.html[TileSource^].
// * `crossOrigin` is used for loaded images. Note, `crossOrigin` is set only at creation time and cannot be changed at runtime. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_source_OSM-OSM.html[OSM^].
// * `maxZoom` sets the maximum zoom level. The default value is 42. Note, the `maxZoom` attribute is set only at creation time and cannot be changed at runtime. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_source_XYZ-XYZ.html[XYZ^].
// * `opaque` sets whether the layer is opaque. The default value is `true`. Note, the `opaque` attribute is set only at creation time and cannot be changed at runtime. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_source_OSM-OSM.html[OSM].
// * `url` sets the URL template. Must include \{x}, \{y} or {-y}, and \{z} placeholders. The default value is `++https://tile.openstreetmap.org/{z}/{x}/{y}.png++`. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_source_OSM-OSM.html[OSM^].
// * `wrapX` sets whether the source should be looped along the X coordinate. The default value for `Source` is `false`. Note, the `wrapX` attribute is set only at creation time and cannot be changed at runtime. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_source_Source-Source.html[Source^].

[[view]]
== View

https://openlayers.org/en/v8.2.0/apidoc/module-ol_View-View.html[View^] defines how the map is displayed in terms of its center, zoom level, rotation, and projection. It essentially sets the initial state of the map when it is loaded in the user interface.

By default, the `geoMap` component displays a world map with an initial geographical center at `(0,0)`.

Choose `geoMap` within the *Jmix UI* structure panel or in the view XML descriptor, and then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, opt for *MapView*.

image::add-map-view.png[align="center", width="372"]

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex2/src/main/resources/com/company/mapssample/view/mapbasic/map-basic-view.xml[tags=mapView]
----

You can specify additional parameters:

* `centerX` defines latitude of the initial geographical center of the map. It is passed to the `org.locationtech.jts.geom.Coordinate` object.
* `centerY` defines longitude of the initial geographical center of the map. It is passed to the `org.locationtech.jts.geom.Coordinate` object.
* `maxZoom` - sets the maximum zoom level for the view.
//The default value is 28. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_View-View.html#setMaxZoom[setMaxZoom^].
* `minZoom` - sets a minimum zoom level for the view.
//The default value is 0. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.1.0/apidoc/module-ol_View-View.html#setMinZoom[setMinZoom^].
* `projection` refers to the coordinate reference system in which the map is displayed. Common projections include `EPSG:3857` and `EPSG:4326`. The default projection is https://epsg.io/3857[EPSG:3857^]. You can set a custom projection in the special inner `projection` element. For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.2.0/apidoc/module-ol_proj_Projection-Projection.html[Projection^].
* `rotation` - sets the rotation for the view in radians (positive rotation clockwise, 0 means North). For more details see https://openlayers.org/en/v8.2.0/apidoc/module-ol_View-View.html#setRotation[setRotation^].
* `zoom` defines the specific zoom level. The zoom level begins at 0, representing the maximum zoomed-out view, and progressively rises as you zoom in for a closer perspective.

[[extent]]
== Extent

The https://openlayers.org/en/v8.2.0/apidoc/module-ol_extent.html#~Extent[extent^] specifies the geographic boundaries of the map <<view,view>> or a specific <<layer,layer>> in terms of coordinates, defining the visible area on the map.

Extent is typically defined by minimum (top-left corner) and maximum (bottom-right corner) coordinate values in the form of [`minX`, `minY`, `maxX`, `maxY`], representing the bounding box of the area.

Choose a layer or the `mapView` element in the *Jmix UI* structure panel or in the view XML descriptor, and then click the *Add* button in the inspector panel. From the drop-down list, select *Extent*, and configure the `minX`, `minY`, `maxX` and `maxY` attributes as indicated below.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/maps-ex2/src/main/resources/com/company/mapssample/view/mapbasic/map-basic-view.xml[tags=extent]
----
