content/modules/reports/pages/report-view.adoc, before:

= Report List View

Reports add-on provides administration views for configuring reports.

After the add-on is added to your application, the main menu contains the *Reports* item. Open the *Reports -> Reports* menu item. The *Reports* list view is opened. It contains a list of the created reports and the buttons for managing them.

image::report-list-view.png[align="center", width="1074"]

There are two ways to create reports: using the report wizard or the report detail view.

Click on the *Create -> New* popup button to create a report manually. The xref:creation/details.adoc[report detail view] is opened.

To open the xref:getting-started.adoc#using-wizard[report wizard], click on the *Create -> Using wizard* popup button.

Click on the *Copy* button to quickly create a new report based on the selected one. The new report will have the same structure, parameters, and templates.

The framework provides the ability to export and import reports.

To import reports to the system, click on the *Import* (image:upload.png[width="18"]) button. The *Import report* dialog is opened:

image::import-report-dialog.png[align="center", width="482"]

Click *Upload File* to select a ZIP file to upload to the system. This can also be done by dragging and dropping a required file to the drop zone. If you clear the *Import roles* checkbox, the imported reports will be xref:creation/permissions.adoc[available to all users].

If the report is compatible with the data model of the project, it should correctly work after the import. It means that you can create reports in your development environment and use them in the production system afterward.

Select the reports you want to export and click on the *Export* (image:download.png[width="18"]) button. The framework creates a ZIP archive containing all selected reports.

Click on the *Run* button to execute the selected report.

The *Execution history* button opens the xref:exec-history.adoc[Execution history view].

Commit message:

Describe how to import reports with ReportImportExport #548
(cherry picked from commit 6146deb2149a1fa64454b39dae53e661452e4279)

content/modules/reports/pages/report-view.adoc, after:

= Report List View

Reports add-on provides administration views for configuring reports.

After the add-on is added to your application, the main menu contains the *Reports* item. Open the *Reports -> Reports* menu item. The *Reports* list view is opened. It contains a list of the created reports and the buttons for managing them.

image::report-list-view.png[align="center", width="1074"]

There are two ways to create reports: using the report wizard or the report detail view.

Click on the *Create -> New* popup button to create a report manually. The xref:creation/details.adoc[report detail view] is opened.

To open the xref:getting-started.adoc#using-wizard[report wizard], click on the *Create -> Using wizard* popup button.

Click on the *Copy* button to quickly create a new report based on the selected one. The new report will have the same structure, parameters, and templates.

[[export-import]]
The framework provides the ability to export and import reports.

To import reports to the system, click on the *Import* (image:upload.png[width="18"]) button. The *Import report* dialog is opened:

image::import-report-dialog.png[align="center", width="482"]

Click *Upload File* to select a ZIP file to upload to the system. This can also be done by dragging and dropping a required file to the drop zone. If you clear the *Import roles* checkbox, the imported reports will be xref:creation/permissions.adoc[available to all users].

If the report is compatible with the data model of the project, it should correctly work after the import. It means that you can create reports in your development environment and use them in the production system afterward.

TIP: You can import reports _programmatically_ using the xref:report-import-export.adoc#report-import-export[ReportImportExport] bean provided by the framework.

Select the reports you want to export and click on the *Export* (image:download.png[width="18"]) button. The framework creates a ZIP archive containing all selected reports.

Click on the *Run* button to execute the selected report.

The *Execution history* button opens the xref:exec-history.adoc[Execution history view].
