content/modules/studio/pages/data-repository-wizard.adoc, before:

= Data Repository Wizard

Studio provides a wizard for creating and managing xref:data-access:data-repositories.adoc[data repositories].

To create a repository, click *New → Data Repository* in *Jmix* tool window toolbar.

image::data-repository-create.png[align="center",width="241"]

In the *New Jmix Data Repository* dialog, select an entity and click *OK*. Studio will create the repository interface extending xref:data-access:data-repositories.adoc#working-with-data-repositories[JmixDataRepository] and add `@EnableJmixDataRepositories` to the main application class.

image::data-repository-wizard.png[align="center",width="592"]

When a data repository is opened in the editor, Studio shows the actions panel on top with two buttons. The *Add Derived Method* button allows you to create a method whose query will be derived from the method name. The *Add Query Method* creates a method with explicitly specified JPQL query.

image::data-repository-methods.png[align="center",width="655"]

Both methods open special dialogs where you can define the query and its parameters.

image::find-method-create.png[align="center",width="936"]

For all existing methods of a repository, Studio displays a "gear" gutter icon. It allows you to adjust the method parameters, for example add sorting or fetch plan. You can also extract the query into the `@Query` annotation and change the method name as you like.

image::data-repository-methods-gear.png[align="center",width="756"]

Data repositories created for a particular entity are displayed in *Jmix* tool window in the *Data Repositories* section inside the entity section.

image::data-repository-tool-window.png[align="center",width="518"]

Commit message:

Document Data Repositories in Views #800

content/modules/studio/pages/data-repository-wizard.adoc, after:

= Support for Data Repositories

[[data-repository-wizard]]
== Data Repository Wizard

Studio provides a wizard for creating and managing xref:data-access:data-repositories.adoc[data repositories].

To create a repository, click *New → Data Repository* in *Jmix* tool window toolbar.

image::data-repository-create.png[align="center",width="241"]

In the *New Jmix Data Repository* dialog, select an entity and click *OK*. Studio will create the repository interface extending xref:data-access:data-repositories.adoc#working-with-data-repositories[JmixDataRepository] and add `@EnableJmixDataRepositories` to the main application class.

image::data-repository-wizard.png[align="center",width="592"]

When a data repository is opened in the editor, Studio shows the actions panel on top with two buttons. The *Add Derived Method* button allows you to create a method whose query will be derived from the method name. The *Add Query Method* creates a method with explicitly specified JPQL query.

image::data-repository-methods.png[align="center",width="655"]

Both methods open special dialogs where you can define the query and its parameters.

image::find-method-create.png[align="center",width="936"]

For all existing methods of a repository, Studio displays a "gear" gutter icon. It allows you to adjust the method parameters, for example add sorting or fetch plan. You can also extract the query into the `@Query` annotation and change the method name as you like.

image::data-repository-methods-gear.png[align="center",width="756"]

[[data-repository-tool-window]]
== Data Repositories in Tool Window

Data repositories created for a particular entity are displayed in *Jmix* tool window in the *Data Repositories* section inside the entity section.

image::data-repository-tool-window.png[align="center",width="518"]

[[data-repositories-in-views]]
== Data Repositories in Views

You can easily delegate loading and saving data in views to Spring Data repositories.

When creating an xref:studio:view-wizard.adoc#creating-entity-based-views[entity list or detail view], select the *Use Data Repositories* checkbox in the *Advanced* section of the wizard’s first page, and choose an existing data repository from the dropdown. The wizard will generate the load and save delegates that invoke appropriate repository methods.
