content/modules/studio/pages/menu-designer.adoc, before:

= Menu Designer

When a new project is created, the xref:flow-ui:menu-config.adoc[structure] of its main menu is stored in the `menu.xml` file. Studio provides a visual designer to configure the main menu.

include::subscription-note.adoc[]

An easy way to access the structure of the main menu is to double-click the *Main Menu* subsection in xref:studio:tool-window.adoc[Jmix Tool Window].

image::menu-open.png[align="center"]

On the *Structure* tab, you can view and configure the menu while the *Text* contains the XML code.

image:menu-designer.png[align="center"]

In the visual designer, you can just drag menu items in the tree to change their location in the menu structure.

[[menu-modes]]
== Menu Modes

By default, the *Composite mode* is selected. It means the menu contains items from `menu.xml` of the application, and all included add-ons as well as inherited from the framework. The inherited menu items can not be edited.

image:menu-composite.png[align="center"]

When you are switching from *Composite mode* to *Single mode*, Studio suggests you retain menu items inherited from the framework and add-ons:

image:menu-suggest.png[align="center"]

In the *Single mode*, the menu contains items from the project’s `menu.xml` file only.

image:menu-single.png[align="center"]

If you decide to retain inherited menu items, their structure will be copied to your project, and you will be able to customize them. If later you decide to switch the main menu back to the composite mode, note that you will need to manually remove all duplicated menus and items from your project’s configuration. Otherwise, the menu would become broken as the menu structure doesn’t allow duplicated items.

[[adding-menu-items]]
== Adding Menu Items

To add a menu item, click the plus button in the designer. The *Create Menu Item* window will be opened.

image:menu-create-item.png[align="center"]

You can create the following types of menu items:

* *Menu* - a menu item that contains other items. Detailed information on the menu attributes is available in xref:flow-ui:menu-config.adoc#menu-attributes[MenuConfig].
* *Screen* - a menu item that opens an application screen.
* *Bean* - a menu item that invokes a method of a managed bean. 
* *Class* - a menu item that executes a method of a class.
// todo flowui
// * *Separator* - a horizontal line separating menu items. Separators are supported only by the top menu. See the xref:ui:vcl/components/app-menu.adoc[AppMenu] component for details.

For more information on how to use Screen, Bean, and Class types of menu items, see the xref:flow-ui:menu-config.adoc#item-attributes[Item Attributes] subsection of `MenuConfig`.

After the menu item for opening a screen is created, it is available to configure a set of xref:flow-ui:menu-config.adoc#item-properties[properties] to pass to the screen’s public setters.

Commit message:

Update the Studio Features - Menu Designer section #589

content/modules/studio/pages/menu-designer.adoc, after:

= Menu Designer

When a new project is created, the xref:flow-ui:menu-config.adoc[structure] of its main menu is stored in the `menu.xml` file. Studio provides a visual designer to configure the main menu.

include::subscription-note.adoc[]

An easy way to access the structure of the main menu is to double-click the *Main Menu* subsection in xref:studio:tool-window.adoc[Jmix Tool Window].

image::menu-open.png[align="center",width="273"]

On the *Structure* tab, you can view and configure the menu while the *Text* contains the XML code.

image:menu-designer.png[align="center",width="897"]

In the visual designer, you can just drag menu items in the tree to change their location in the menu structure.

[[menu-modes]]
== Menu Modes

By default, the *Composite mode* is selected. It means the menu contains items from `menu.xml` of the application, and all included add-ons as well as inherited from the framework. The inherited menu items can not be edited.

image:menu-composite.png[align="center",width="351"]

When you are switching from *Composite mode* to *Single mode*, Studio suggests you retain menu items inherited from the framework and add-ons:

image:menu-suggest.png[align="center",width="581"]

In the *Single mode*, Studio provides the ability to add inherited menu items from the add-ons included in the project. All available items are always displayed in the separate panel on the left, and you can easily drag-and-drop them into your current custom menu.

image:menu-single.png[align="center",width="654"]

If you decide to retain inherited menu items, their structure will be copied to your project, and you will be able to customize them. If later you decide to switch the main menu back to the composite mode, note that you will need to manually remove all duplicated menus and items from your project’s configuration. Otherwise, the menu would become broken as the menu structure doesn’t allow duplicated items.

[[adding-menu-items]]
== Adding Menu Items

To add a menu item, click the plus button in the designer. The *Create Menu Item* window will be opened.

image:menu-create-item.png[align="center",width="859"]

You can create the following types of menu items:

* *View* - a menu item that opens an application view.
* *Menu* - a menu item that contains other items. Detailed information on the menu attributes is available in xref:flow-ui:menu-config.adoc#menu-attributes[MenuConfig].
* *Bean* - a menu item that invokes a method of a managed bean. 
//* *Class* - a menu item that executes a method of a class.
* *Separator* - a horizontal line separating menu items.

For more information on how to use View, and Bean types of menu items, see the xref:flow-ui:menu-config.adoc#item-attributes[Item Attributes] subsection of `MenuConfig`.

After the menu item for opening a view is created, it is available to configure a set of xref:flow-ui:menu-config.adoc#item-properties[properties] to pass to the view’s public setters.
