content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/checkBox.adoc, before:

= checkBox

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/checkbox-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`checkBox` is a component with two states: selected or deselected.

* XML element: `checkBox`

* Java class: `JmixCheckbox`

== Basics

By default, Jmix Studio generates `checkBox` when creating an entity detail view with a `Boolean` attribute.

image::visual-components/components/check-box-basics.png[align="center", width="201"]

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/checkbox/check-box-view.xml[tags=data;layout;basics]
----

In the `checkBox` element, the `dataContainer` attribute contains a link to the `userDc` data container, and the `property` attribute refers to the `active` entity attribute.

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
<<ariaLabel,ariaLabel>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#autofocus[autofocus] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
<<indeterminate,indeterminate>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredIndicatorVisible[requiredIndicatorVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
<<value,value>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[ariaLabel]]
=== ariaLabel

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-label" class="mdn-docs-btn" target="_blank">MDN</a>
</div>
++++

Set the accessibility label of this `checkBox`.

[[indeterminate]]
=== indeterminate

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://vaadin.com/docs/v23/components/checkbox/#indeterminate" class="vaadin-docs-btn" target="_blank">Vaadin</a>
</div>
++++

Set the indeterminate state of `checkBox`.

NOTE: As according to the HTML5 standard, this has only effect on the visual appearance, not on the checked value.

[[value]]
=== value

Defines the value of `checkBox`. Can be `true` or `false`.

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
<<ClickEvent,ClickEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent]

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[ClickEvent]]
=== ClickEvent

`com.vaadin.flow.component.ClickEvent` is sent when the user clicks `checkBox`.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/checkbox/CheckBoxView.java[tags=notifications;ClickEvent]
----

== Elements

xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip]

== See Also

See the https://vaadin.com/docs/v23/components/checkbox[Vaadin Docs^] for more information.

Commit message:

Document Flow UI checkbox #481
(cherry picked from commit 6793337cdac88ce5a75d7eddd1ae3656775782b4)

content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/checkBox.adoc, after:

= checkBox

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/checkbox-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`checkBox` is a component with two states: selected or deselected.

* XML element: `checkBox`

* Java class: `JmixCheckbox`

== Basics

An example of `checkBox`:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/checkbox/check-box-view.xml[tags=basics]
----

image::visual-components/components/check-box-basics.png[align="center", width="201"]

== Data Binding

You can bind a component to an entity or its attributes hold in a xref:data/data-containers.adoc[data container].

To bind `checkBox` to an entity attribute:

. Specify the name of the data container as the xref:flow-ui:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] attribute value.
. Specify the name of the entity attribute as the xref:flow-ui:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] attribute value.

The entity attribute must be of `Boolean` type.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/checkbox/check-box-view.xml[tags=data;layout;data-binding]
----

image::visual-components/components/check-box-binding.png[align="center", width="96"]

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
<<ariaLabel,ariaLabel>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#autofocus[autofocus] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
<<indeterminate,indeterminate>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredIndicatorVisible[requiredIndicatorVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
<<value,value>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[ariaLabel]]
=== ariaLabel

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-label" class="mdn-docs-btn" target="_blank">MDN</a>
</div>
++++

Set the accessibility label of this `checkBox`.

[[indeterminate]]
=== indeterminate

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://vaadin.com/docs/v23/components/checkbox/#indeterminate" class="vaadin-docs-btn" target="_blank">Vaadin</a>
</div>
++++

Set the indeterminate state of `checkBox`.

NOTE: As according to the HTML5 standard, this has only effect on the visual appearance, not on the checked value.

[[value]]
=== value

Defines the value of `checkBox`. Can be `true` or `false`.

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
<<ClickEvent,ClickEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent]

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[ClickEvent]]
=== ClickEvent

`com.vaadin.flow.component.ClickEvent` is sent when the user clicks `checkBox`.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/checkbox/CheckBoxView.java[tags=notifications;ClickEvent]
----

== Elements

xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip]

== See Also

See the https://vaadin.com/docs/v23/components/checkbox[Vaadin Docs^] for more information.
