content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/comboBox.adoc, before:

= comboBox

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/combobox-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`comboBox` allows users to select a single item from a drop-down list.
// It supports filtering of items based on user input.

* XML element: `comboBox`

* Java class: `JmixComboBox`

== Basics

Use `comboBox` if:

* Users need to select a single item.
* The list should be compact. It can be useful when the list of items is too long for xref:flow-ui:vc/components/radioButtonGroup.adoc[radioButtonGroup].
//or SingleSelectList.
// * Users need filtering functionality.

By default, Jmix Studio generates `comboBox` when creating an entity detail view with an enum attribute. For example, the `User` entity has the `onboardingStatus` attribute of the `OnboardingStatus` type, which is an enumeration.

image::visual-components/components/combo-box-basic.png[align="center", width="268"]

In the `comboBox` element, the `dataContainer` attribute contains a link to the `userDc` data container, and the `property` attribute refers to the `onboardingStatus` entity attribute. In this case, the entity attribute is an enumeration, and the drop-down list displays localized names of all enumeration values.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/combobox/combo-box-view.xml[tags=data;userDc;layout;basics]
----

[[custom-items]]
== Custom Items

You can specify the list of `comboBox` items using the `setItems()` method.

First, declare a component in the XML descriptor:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/combobox/combo-box-view.xml[tags=data;stepDc;layout;custom-options]
----

Then inject the component into the controller and specify a list of items in the `onInit()` method:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/combobox/ComboBoxView.java[tags=durationComboBox;onInit;setItems]
----

In the component’s drop-down list, the values `1`, `2`, `3`, `4` and `5` will be displayed. The selected value will be put into the `duration` attribute of an entity located in the `stepDc` data container.

[[validation]]
== Validation

To check values entered into the `comboBox` component, you can use a xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] in a nested `validators` element.

The following predefined validators are available for `comboBox`:

* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#custom-validator[Custom]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#DecimalMaxValidator[DecimalMax]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#DecimalMinValidator[DecimalMin]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#DigitsValidator[Digits]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#DoubleMaxValidator[DoubleMax]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#DoubleMinValidator[DoubleMin]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#EmailValidator[Email]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#MaxValidator[Max]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#MinValidator[Min]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#NegativeOrZeroValidator[NegativeOrZero]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#NegativeValidator[Negative]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#NotBlankValidator[NotBlank]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#NotEmptyValidator[NotEmpty]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#NotNullValidator[NotNull]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#PositiveOrZeroValidator[PositiveOrZero]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#PositiveValidator[Positive]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#RegexpValidator[Regexp]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#SizeValidator[Size]

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
<<allowCustomValue,allowCustomValue>> -
<<autoOpen,autoOpen>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#autofocus[autofocus] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/components/textField.adoc#clearButtonVisible[clearButtonVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#errorMessage[errorMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#helperText[helperText] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] -
<<itemsEnum,itemsEnum>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
//<<pageSize,pageSize>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#pattern[pattern] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#placeholder[placeholder] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredIndicatorVisible[requiredIndicatorVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredMessage[requiredMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#title[title] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[allowCustomValue]]
=== allowCustomValue

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/components/combo-box/#custom-value-entry" class="vaadin-docs-btn" target="_blank">Vaadin</a>
</div>
++++

If the `allowCustomValue` attribute is `true`, the user can input string values that do not match to any existing item labels, which will fire <<CustomValueSetEvent,CustomValueSetEvent>>.

Note that `comboBox` doesn't do anything with the custom value string automatically. Use `CustomValueSetEvent` to determine how the custom value should be handled.

Default is `false`.

[[autoOpen]]
=== autoOpen

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/components/combo-box/#auto-open" class="vaadin-docs-btn" target="_blank">Vaadin</a>
</div>
++++

If the `autoOpen` attribute is `true`, the `comboBox` drop-down list is opened automatically when the field is focused using a mouse or touch, or when the user types in the field.

Set to `false` to disable this behaviour.

[[itemsEnum]]
=== itemsEnum

Defines the enumeration class for creating a list of items. The drop-down list will show localized names of enum values; the component’s value will be an enum value.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/combobox/combo-box-view.xml[tags=itemsEnum]
----
//TODO: https://github.com/jmix-framework/jmix-docs/issues/537
// [[pageSize]]
// === pageSize

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/components/valuePicker.adoc#CustomValueSetEvent[CustomValueSetEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent] -
<<itemLabelGenerator,itemLabelGenerator>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#statusChangeHandler[statusChangeHandler] -
xref:vc/components/textField.adoc#validator[validator]

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[CustomValueSetEvent]]
=== CustomValueSetEvent

`com.vaadin.flow.component.combobox.ComboBoxBase.CustomValueSetEvent` is fired when the user enters a non-empty value that does not match any of the existing items. To enable input custom values, set the <<allowCustomValue,allowCustomValue>> attribute to `true`.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/combobox/combo-box-view.xml[tags=allowCustomValue]
----

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/combobox/ComboBoxView.java[tags=colorComboBox;onInit;setColorItems;CustomValueSetEvent]
----

[[itemLabelGenerator]]
=== itemLabelGenerator

`com.vaadin.flow.component.ItemLabelGenerator` can be used to customize the string shown to the user for an item. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/combobox/ComboBoxView.java[tags=itemLabelGenerator]
----

== Elements

xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip] -
<<validation,validator>>

== See Also

See the https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/components/combo-box[Vaadin Docs^] for more information.

Commit message:

Document pageSize for comboBox #537
(cherry picked from commit f1492d38ee4f3c938c262706826447066ba24705)

content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/comboBox.adoc, after:

= comboBox

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/combobox-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`comboBox` allows users to select a single item from a drop-down list.
// It supports filtering of items based on user input.

* XML element: `comboBox`

* Java class: `JmixComboBox`

== Basics

Use `comboBox` if:

* Users need to select a single item.
* The list should be compact. It can be useful when the list of items is too long for xref:flow-ui:vc/components/radioButtonGroup.adoc[radioButtonGroup].
//or SingleSelectList.
// * Users need filtering functionality.

By default, Jmix Studio generates `comboBox` when creating an entity detail view with an enum attribute. For example, the `User` entity has the `onboardingStatus` attribute of the `OnboardingStatus` type, which is an enumeration.

image::visual-components/components/combo-box-basic.png[align="center", width="268"]

In the `comboBox` element, the `dataContainer` attribute contains a link to the `userDc` data container, and the `property` attribute refers to the `onboardingStatus` entity attribute. In this case, the entity attribute is an enumeration, and the drop-down list displays localized names of all enumeration values.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/combobox/combo-box-view.xml[tags=data;userDc;layout;basics]
----

[[custom-items]]
== Custom Items

You can specify the list of `comboBox` items using the `setItems()` method.

First, declare a component in the XML descriptor:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/combobox/combo-box-view.xml[tags=data;stepDc;layout;custom-options]
----

Then inject the component into the controller and specify a list of items in the `onInit()` method:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/combobox/ComboBoxView.java[tags=durationComboBox;onInit;setItems]
----

In the component’s drop-down list, the values `1`, `2`, `3`, `4` and `5` will be displayed. The selected value will be put into the `duration` attribute of an entity located in the `stepDc` data container.

[[validation]]
== Validation

To check values entered into the `comboBox` component, you can use a xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] in a nested `validators` element.

The following predefined validators are available for `comboBox`:

* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#custom-validator[Custom]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#DecimalMaxValidator[DecimalMax]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#DecimalMinValidator[DecimalMin]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#DigitsValidator[Digits]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#DoubleMaxValidator[DoubleMax]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#DoubleMinValidator[DoubleMin]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#EmailValidator[Email]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#MaxValidator[Max]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#MinValidator[Min]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#NegativeOrZeroValidator[NegativeOrZero]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#NegativeValidator[Negative]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#NotBlankValidator[NotBlank]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#NotEmptyValidator[NotEmpty]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#NotNullValidator[NotNull]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#PositiveOrZeroValidator[PositiveOrZero]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#PositiveValidator[Positive]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#RegexpValidator[Regexp]
* xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#SizeValidator[Size]

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
<<allowCustomValue,allowCustomValue>> -
<<autoOpen,autoOpen>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#autofocus[autofocus] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/components/textField.adoc#clearButtonVisible[clearButtonVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#errorMessage[errorMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#helperText[helperText] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] -
<<itemsEnum,itemsEnum>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
<<pageSize,pageSize>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#pattern[pattern] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#placeholder[placeholder] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredIndicatorVisible[requiredIndicatorVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredMessage[requiredMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#title[title] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[allowCustomValue]]
=== allowCustomValue

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/components/combo-box/#custom-value-entry" class="vaadin-docs-btn" target="_blank">Vaadin</a>
</div>
++++

If the `allowCustomValue` attribute is `true`, the user can input string values that do not match to any existing item labels, which will fire <<CustomValueSetEvent,CustomValueSetEvent>>.

Note that `comboBox` doesn't do anything with the custom value string automatically. Use `CustomValueSetEvent` to determine how the custom value should be handled.

Default is `false`.

[[autoOpen]]
=== autoOpen

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/components/combo-box/#auto-open" class="vaadin-docs-btn" target="_blank">Vaadin</a>
</div>
++++

If the `autoOpen` attribute is `true`, the `comboBox` drop-down list is opened automatically when the field is focused using a mouse or touch, or when the user types in the field.

Set to `false` to disable this behaviour.

[[itemsEnum]]
=== itemsEnum

Defines the enumeration class for creating a list of items. The drop-down list will show localized names of enum values; the component’s value will be an enum value.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/combobox/combo-box-view.xml[tags=itemsEnum]
----

[[pageSize]]
=== pageSize

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/binding-data/data-provider" class="vaadin-docs-btn" target="_blank">Vaadin</a>
</div>
++++

Sets the maximum number of items sent per request, should be greater than zero. See the `com.vaadin.flow.component.combobox.ComboBoxBase.setPageSize()` method.

The default page size is `50`.

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/components/valuePicker.adoc#CustomValueSetEvent[CustomValueSetEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent] -
<<itemLabelGenerator,itemLabelGenerator>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#statusChangeHandler[statusChangeHandler] -
xref:vc/components/textField.adoc#validator[validator]

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[CustomValueSetEvent]]
=== CustomValueSetEvent

`com.vaadin.flow.component.combobox.ComboBoxBase.CustomValueSetEvent` is fired when the user enters a non-empty value that does not match any of the existing items. To enable input custom values, set the <<allowCustomValue,allowCustomValue>> attribute to `true`.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/combobox/combo-box-view.xml[tags=allowCustomValue]
----

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/combobox/ComboBoxView.java[tags=colorComboBox;onInit;setColorItems;CustomValueSetEvent]
----

[[itemLabelGenerator]]
=== itemLabelGenerator

`com.vaadin.flow.component.ItemLabelGenerator` can be used to customize the string shown to the user for an item. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/combobox/ComboBoxView.java[tags=itemLabelGenerator]
----

== Elements

xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip] -
<<validation,validator>>

== See Also

See the https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/components/combo-box[Vaadin Docs^] for more information.
