content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/datePicker.adoc, before:

= datePicker

`datePicker` lets users enter a date by typing or select it using a calendar overlay.

* XML element: `datePicker`

* Java class: `TypedDatePicker`

== Basics

Unlike a regular input field, `datePicker` has a calendar button and a calendar overlay. The calendar opens when the user clicks the button or the field itself, or starts entering a date.

image::visual-components/components/date-picker.png[align="center", width="340"]

The calendar is scrollable and allows selecting a year in the right pane. Click *Today* at the bottom to navigate back to the current date.

The following example defines a `datePicker` with a label:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datepicker/date-picker-view.xml[tags=basics]
----

== Data Types

`datePicker` is a typed component which supports common data types for storing a date:

* `date`
* `dateTime`
* `localDateTime`
* `offsetDateTime`
* `localDate`

To change the type, use the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#datatype[datatype] attribute.

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
<<autoOpen, autoOpen>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#clearButtonVisible[clearButtonVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#datatype[datatype] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#errorMessage[errorMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
<<name, name>> -
<<opened, opened>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#placeholder[placeholder] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredIndicatorVisible[requiredIndicatorVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredMessage[requiredMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[autoOpen]]
=== autoOpen

Defines whether an overlay calendar opens when the user starts typing a date.

* If set to `true`, an overlay calendar opens both on user input and on clicking the calendar button or the field.
* If set to `false`, an overlay calendar opens only on clicking the calendar button.

[[name]]
=== name

Specifies a name for an HTML element that can be used to reference the component.

[[opened]]
=== opened

Specifies whether the calendar is opened.

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
<<ChangeEvent, ChangeEvent>> -
<<ClientValidatedEvent, ClientValidatedEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent] -
<<InvalidChangeEvent, InvalidChangeEvent>> -
<<OpenedChangeEvent, OpenedChangeEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#TypedValueChangeEvent[TypedValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#statusChangeHandler[statusChangeHandler] -
<<validator, validator>>

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[ChangeEvent]]
=== ChangeEvent
//todo: now deprecated. remove when it's removed from studio

`com.vaadin.flow.component.datepicker.GeneratedVaadinDatePicker.ChangeEvent` corresponds to the `change` DOM event.

[[ClientValidatedEvent]]
=== ClientValidatedEvent

`ClientValidatedEvent` is sent by the web component whenever it is validated on the client-side.

[[InvalidChangeEvent]]
=== InvalidChangeEvent

`com.vaadin.flow.component.datepicker.DatePicker.InvalidChangeEvent` is sent when the value of the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] attribute of the component changes.

[[OpenedChangeEvent]]
=== OpenedChangeEvent

`OpenedChangeEvent` is sent every time the `opened` attribute of the component changes. That is, when the calendar is opened or closed.

[[validator]]
=== validator

Adds a validator instance to the component. The validator must throw `ValidationException` if the value is not valid. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datepicker/DatePickerView.java[tags=validator]
----

== Elements

xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip]

== See Also

See https://vaadin.com/docs/v23/components/date-picker[Vaadin Docs^] for more information.

Commit message:

Changes to time and date format section of picker components

content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/datePicker.adoc, after:

= datePicker

`datePicker` lets users enter a date by typing or select it using a calendar overlay.

* XML element: `datePicker`

* Java class: `TypedDatePicker`

== Basics

Unlike a regular input field, `datePicker` has a calendar button and a calendar overlay. The calendar opens when the user clicks the button or the field itself, or starts entering a date.

image::visual-components/components/date-picker.png[align="center", width="340"]

The calendar is scrollable and allows selecting a year in the right pane. Click *Today* at the bottom to navigate back to the current date.

The following example defines a `datePicker` with a label:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datepicker/date-picker-view.xml[tags=basics]
----

== Data Types

`datePicker` is a typed component which supports common data types for storing a date:

* `date`
* `dateTime`
* `localDateTime`
* `offsetDateTime`
* `localDate`

To change the type, use the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#datatype[datatype] attribute.

== Date Format
//todo: make changes upon completing jmix#858 ticket
The default date and time format in the application is defined by the xref:data-model:data-types.adoc#localized-format-strings[localized data format strings]. To use a different format, add your own format strings to the message bundle.

To change the date format for a particular component, set its locale to one that uses the desired format.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datepicker/DatePickerView.java[tags=datePicker;onInit;locale]
----


== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
<<autoOpen, autoOpen>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#clearButtonVisible[clearButtonVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#datatype[datatype] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#errorMessage[errorMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
<<name, name>> -
<<opened, opened>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#placeholder[placeholder] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredIndicatorVisible[requiredIndicatorVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredMessage[requiredMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[autoOpen]]
=== autoOpen

Defines whether an overlay calendar opens when the user starts typing a date.

* If set to `true`, an overlay calendar opens both on user input and on clicking the calendar button or the field.
* If set to `false`, an overlay calendar opens only on clicking the calendar button.

[[name]]
=== name

Specifies a name for an HTML element that can be used to reference the component.

[[opened]]
=== opened

Specifies whether the calendar is opened.

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
<<ChangeEvent, ChangeEvent>> -
<<ClientValidatedEvent, ClientValidatedEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent] -
<<InvalidChangeEvent, InvalidChangeEvent>> -
<<OpenedChangeEvent, OpenedChangeEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#TypedValueChangeEvent[TypedValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#statusChangeHandler[statusChangeHandler] -
<<validator, validator>>

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[ChangeEvent]]
=== ChangeEvent
//todo: now deprecated. remove when it's removed from studio

`com.vaadin.flow.component.datepicker.GeneratedVaadinDatePicker.ChangeEvent` corresponds to the `change` DOM event.

[[ClientValidatedEvent]]
=== ClientValidatedEvent

`ClientValidatedEvent` is sent by the web component whenever it is validated on the client-side.

[[InvalidChangeEvent]]
=== InvalidChangeEvent

`com.vaadin.flow.component.datepicker.DatePicker.InvalidChangeEvent` is sent when the value of the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] attribute of the component changes.

[[OpenedChangeEvent]]
=== OpenedChangeEvent

`OpenedChangeEvent` is sent every time the `opened` attribute of the component changes. That is, when the calendar is opened or closed.

[[validator]]
=== validator

Adds a validator instance to the component. The validator must throw `ValidationException` if the value is not valid. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datepicker/DatePickerView.java[tags=validator]
----

== Elements

xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip]

== See Also

See https://vaadin.com/docs/v23/components/date-picker[Vaadin Docs^] for more information.
