content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/dateTimePicker.adoc, before:

= dateTimePicker

`dateTimePicker` lets users select both a date and a time. If you only need a date or time of the day, use xref:vc/components/datePicker.adoc[datePicker] or xref:vc/components/timePicker.adoc[timePicker], respectively.

* XML element: `dateTimePicker`

* Java class: `TypedDateTimePicker`

== Basics

The date and time can be entered directly using a keyboard or selected from overlays. The overlays open when the respective fields are clicked or any input is entered.

image::visual-components/components/date-time-picker-basic.png[align="center", width="400"]

The following example defines a `datePicker` with a label:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datetimepicker/date-time-picker-view.xml[tags=basics]
----

== Data Binding

Use the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] and xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] attributes to bind `dateTimePicker` to data in the screen XML descriptor:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datetimepicker/date-time-picker-view.xml[tags=userDc]
----

In the example above, the screen has the `userDc` data container for the `User` entity, which has the `passwordExpiration` property. The reference to the data container is specified in the `dataContainer` attribute. The entity attribute is specified in the `property` attribute.

== Data Type

=== Data-aware DateTimePicker

The `dateTimePicker` component that is bound to an entity attribute will have the same data type as that attribute.

=== Standalone DateTimePicker

If the component is not bound to an entity attribute, you can set the data type manually, using the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#datatype[datatype] attribute. The following data types are supported:

* `date`
* `dateTime`
* `localDateTime`
* `offsetTime`
* `localTime`
* `offsetDateTime`
* `time`
* `localDate`

== Step

The default interval between the items displayed in the time field overlay is set to one hour. It is possible to set a custom step value.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datetimepicker/DateTimePickerView.java[tags=dateTimePicker;onInit;step]
----

image::visual-components/components/date-time-picker-step.png[align="center", width="410"]

The step must divide an hour or day evenly. For example, "15 minutes", "30 minutes" and "2 hours" are valid steps, whereas "42 minutes" isn’t.

NOTE: The overlay doesn't appear for steps less than 15 minutes, to avoid showing an impractical number of choices.

== Date and Time Format

The default date and time format in the application is defined by the xref:data-model:data-types.adoc#localized-format-strings[localized data format strings]. To use a different format, add your own format strings to the message bundle.

== Date Range

To restrict the input to a specific date range, specify a minimum and maximum value.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datetimepicker/DateTimePickerView.java[tags=dateTimePicker;onInit;time-range]
----

Apply a <<validator, validator>> to set a specific date and time range.

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
<<autoOpen, autoOpen>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#clearButtonVisible[clearButtonVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#datatype[datatype] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#errorMessage[errorMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#placeholder[placeholder] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredIndicatorVisible[requiredIndicatorVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredMessage[requiredMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[autoOpen]]
=== autoOpen

Defines whether the overlays open when the user starts typing a date.

* If set to `true`, the overlays open both on user input and on clicking their respective button or field.
* If set to `false`, the overlays open only on clicking their respective button.

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
<<ChangeEvent, ChangeEvent>> -
<<ClientValidatedEvent, ClientValidatedEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent] -
<<InvalidChangeEvent, InvalidChangeEvent>> -
<<OpenedChangeEvent, OpenedChangeEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#TypedValueChangeEvent[TypedValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#statusChangeHandler[statusChangeHandler] -
<<validator, validator>>

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[ChangeEvent]]
=== ChangeEvent
//todo: now deprecated. remove when it's removed from studio

`com.vaadin.flow.component.datepicker.GeneratedVaadinDatePicker.ChangeEvent` corresponds to the `change` DOM event.

[[ClientValidatedEvent]]
=== ClientValidatedEvent

`ClientValidatedEvent` is sent by the web component whenever it is validated on the client-side.

[[InvalidChangeEvent]]
=== InvalidChangeEvent

`com.vaadin.flow.component.datepicker.DatePicker.InvalidChangeEvent` is sent when the value of the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] attribute of the component changes.

[[OpenedChangeEvent]]
=== OpenedChangeEvent

`OpenedChangeEvent` is sent every time the `opened` attribute of the component changes. That is, when the calendar is opened or closed.

[[validator]]
=== validator

Adds a validator instance to the component. The validator must throw `ValidationException` if the value is not valid. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datetimepicker/DateTimePickerView.java[tags=validator]
----

== Elements

xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip]

== See Also

See https://vaadin.com/docs/v23/components/date-time-picker[Vaadin Docs^] for more information.

Commit message:

Changes to time and date format section of picker components

content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/dateTimePicker.adoc, after:

= dateTimePicker

`dateTimePicker` lets users select both a date and a time. If you only need a date or time of the day, use xref:vc/components/datePicker.adoc[datePicker] or xref:vc/components/timePicker.adoc[timePicker], respectively.

* XML element: `dateTimePicker`

* Java class: `TypedDateTimePicker`

== Basics

The date and time can be entered directly using a keyboard or selected from overlays. The overlays open when the respective fields are clicked or any input is entered.

image::visual-components/components/date-time-picker-basic.png[align="center", width="400"]

The following example defines a `datePicker` with a label:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datetimepicker/date-time-picker-view.xml[tags=basics]
----

== Data Binding

Use the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] and xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] attributes to bind `dateTimePicker` to data in the screen XML descriptor:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datetimepicker/date-time-picker-view.xml[tags=userDc]
----

In the example above, the screen has the `userDc` data container for the `User` entity, which has the `passwordExpiration` property. The reference to the data container is specified in the `dataContainer` attribute. The entity attribute is specified in the `property` attribute.

== Data Type

=== Data-aware DateTimePicker

The `dateTimePicker` component that is bound to an entity attribute will have the same data type as that attribute.

=== Standalone DateTimePicker

If the component is not bound to an entity attribute, you can set the data type manually, using the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#datatype[datatype] attribute. The following data types are supported:

* `date`
* `dateTime`
* `localDateTime`
* `offsetTime`
* `localTime`
* `offsetDateTime`
* `time`
* `localDate`

== Step

The default interval between the items displayed in the time field overlay is set to one hour. It is possible to set a custom step value.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datetimepicker/DateTimePickerView.java[tags=dateTimePicker;onInit;step]
----

image::visual-components/components/date-time-picker-step.png[align="center", width="410"]

The step must divide an hour or day evenly. For example, "15 minutes", "30 minutes" and "2 hours" are valid steps, whereas "42 minutes" isn’t.

NOTE: The overlay doesn't appear for steps less than 15 minutes, to avoid showing an impractical number of choices.

== Date and Time Format

The default date and time format in the application is defined by the xref:data-model:data-types.adoc#localized-format-strings[localized data format strings]. To use a different format, add your own format strings to the message bundle.

To change the date and time format for a particular component, set its locale to one that uses the desired format.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datetimepicker/DateTimePickerView.java[tags=dateTimePicker;onInit;locale]
----

== Date Range

To restrict the input to a specific date range, specify a minimum and maximum value.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datetimepicker/DateTimePickerView.java[tags=dateTimePicker;onInit;time-range]
----

Apply a <<validator, validator>> to set a specific date and time range.

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
<<autoOpen, autoOpen>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#clearButtonVisible[clearButtonVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#datatype[datatype] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#errorMessage[errorMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#placeholder[placeholder] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredIndicatorVisible[requiredIndicatorVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredMessage[requiredMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[autoOpen]]
=== autoOpen

Defines whether the overlays open when the user starts typing a date.

* If set to `true`, the overlays open both on user input and on clicking their respective button or field.
* If set to `false`, the overlays open only on clicking their respective button.

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
<<ChangeEvent, ChangeEvent>> -
<<ClientValidatedEvent, ClientValidatedEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent] -
<<InvalidChangeEvent, InvalidChangeEvent>> -
<<OpenedChangeEvent, OpenedChangeEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#TypedValueChangeEvent[TypedValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#statusChangeHandler[statusChangeHandler] -
<<validator, validator>>

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[ChangeEvent]]
=== ChangeEvent
//todo: now deprecated. remove when it's removed from studio

`com.vaadin.flow.component.datepicker.GeneratedVaadinDatePicker.ChangeEvent` corresponds to the `change` DOM event.

[[ClientValidatedEvent]]
=== ClientValidatedEvent

`ClientValidatedEvent` is sent by the web component whenever it is validated on the client-side.

[[InvalidChangeEvent]]
=== InvalidChangeEvent

`com.vaadin.flow.component.datepicker.DatePicker.InvalidChangeEvent` is sent when the value of the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] attribute of the component changes.

[[OpenedChangeEvent]]
=== OpenedChangeEvent

`OpenedChangeEvent` is sent every time the `opened` attribute of the component changes. That is, when the calendar is opened or closed.

[[validator]]
=== validator

Adds a validator instance to the component. The validator must throw `ValidationException` if the value is not valid. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/datetimepicker/DateTimePickerView.java[tags=validator]
----

== Elements

xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip]

== See Also

See https://vaadin.com/docs/v23/components/date-time-picker[Vaadin Docs^] for more information.
