content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/entityComboBox.adoc, before:

= entityComboBox
:page-aliases: vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/entity-combobox-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

An input field to select an xref:data-model:entities.adoc[entity] instance from a drop-down list and perform relevant actions. These can be both predefined actions such as updating instance details, as well as custom actions to perform more specific tasks.

This component is, in fact, a hybrid of the xref:flow-ui:vc/components/comboBox.adoc[comboBox] and xref:flow-ui:vc/components/entityPicker.adoc[entityPicker] components.

* XML element: `entityComboBox`

* Java class: `EntityComboBox`

== Basics

The `entityComboBox` component is commonly used when the field value must represent a reference to an entity. It enables users to select a particular entity instance with the ability to perform relevant actions.

Clicking the field or arrow button opens a drop-down list containing all existing instances of the entity:

[cols="a,a" grid=none, frame=none]
|===
| image::visual-components/components/entity-combobox-basics.png[align="center", width="220"]
| image::visual-components/components/entity-combobox-basics-2.png[align="center", width="220"]
|===

Note that unless you have configured <<lazy-loading, lazy loading>>, the component will load a list of all available instances into both the browser's memory and the server's memory. This can consume substantial system resources and may impact performance, especially for large number of items. Furthermore, users may find it challenging to search for a specific instance within a lengthy drop-down list.

TIP: If the expected number of items is large, such as thousands or more, or if making a selection requires providing additional context about each item, it is recommended to use xref:flow-ui:vc/components/entityPicker.adoc[entityPicker].

// === When to use
//
// Use `entityComboBox` if:
//
// * The field value is a reference to an entity instance.
// * Users need to select a single item.
// * The number of items is too large for xref:flow-ui:vc/components/radioButtonGroup.adoc[radioButtonGroup] or xref:flow-ui:vc/components/listBox.adoc[listBox].
// * Users need to perform actions on the selected entity instance.

[[quick-start]]
== Quick Start

The following example demonstrates how to use the `entityCombobox` component to select the department the user belongs to:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/entity-combobox-view.xml[tags=data;userDc;departmentsDc;dataLoadCoordinator;layout;basics]
----

<1> Data container to hold the `User` instance which is currently being edited.
<2> Fetch plan extended to retrieve a collection of `Department` instances that will be available for selection.
<3> Data container to hold a collection of all existing `Department` instances.
<4> Data load coordinator to automatically supply the component with instances to select from.
<5> Binding the component to a data container and property. Specifying the container that holds the list of items to be selected.
<6> Adding a predefined action to clear the selection.

For more interactive examples of the `entityComboBox` and its variations, see:

* https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/entity-combobox-simple[entityCombobox with actions]
* https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/entity-combobox-items-query[entityComboBox with items fetchCallback^]

[[data-binding]]
== Data Binding

Data binding refers to linking a visual component to a data container. Changes in the visual component or corresponding data container can trigger updates to one another. See xref:data/data-examples.adoc[] for more details.

=== Select an instance

If you simply need a way to select an instance of a specific entity, specify that entity using the `metaClass` attribute. To specify a collection of instances for selection use the <<itemsContainer,itemsContainer>> attribute.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/entity-combobox-view.xml[tags=binding-metaclass]
----

=== Select an instance to update a related attribute

Selecting an instance is often intended to update an attribute within another instance. In the <<quick-start, example above>>, selecting a `Department` instance updates the `User` instance by associating it with the chosen department.

In such cases you will need to bind the component to the data container holding the instance and specify the attribute to be updated using the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] and xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] attributes respectively. To specify a collection of instances for selection use the <<itemsContainer,itemsContainer>> attribute.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/entity-combobox-view.xml[tags=binding-container]
----

[[actions]]
== Actions

Initially `entityComboBox` does not have any actions. You need to add them explicitly, for example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/entity-combobox-view.xml[tags=actions]
----

[TIP]
====
To add `action` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the view descriptor XML or in the *Jmix UI* structure panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#add-picker-action[Add->Action] button in the *Jmix UI* inspector panel.
====

See detailed information on defining custom and predefined actions in the xref:flow-ui:vc/components/entityPicker.adoc#actions[Actions] section for `entityPicker`.

[[lazy-loading]]
== Lazy Loading

The component supports loading items in batches in response to user input, rather than loading all items at once. This helps to ensure a smooth user experience, even when dealing with a large number of items.

[[declarative-lazy-loading]]
=== Declarative Configuration

To implement lazy loading in the view descriptor, instead of specifying the `itemsContainer` attribute configure the `itemsQuery` nested element. For example, to load at most 30 items and show them in the list, do the following:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/entity-combobox-view.xml[tags=items-query]
----

<1> The `pageSize` attribute defines the batch size when loading data from the database. It is 50 by default.
<2> Attributes in the `itemsQuery` provide control over the fetching process. They are as follows:
    *  `class` – specifies a full qualified name of the entity class which instances will be fetched.
    *  `searchStringFormat` – a string that contains a variable placeholder, which is subsequently replaced with an actual value.
    * `escapeValueForLike` – specifies whether to search for values containing special symbols. By default, this value is `false`.
    * `fetchPlan` – and optional descriptor of inline fetch plan.
<3> A JPQL query.

[[programmatic-lazy-loading]]
=== Programmatic Configuration

Items fetching can also be defined programmatically using the `itemsFetchCallback` handler. For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/entity-combobox-view.xml[tags=programmatic-fetching]
----

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/EntityComboBoxView.java[tags=departmentField;itemsFetchCallback]
----

In this example, data is fetched using xref:data-access:data-manager.adoc[DataManager], but you can use this approach to load from a custom service as well.

[[renderer]]
== Custom Renderer

By default, instances displayed in a drop-down list are typically rendered as plain text. A custom renderer allows you to define a rendering logic for each item in the drop-down, enabling you to include various components, icons, or even layouts.

For example, define the following renderer to add an icon before a department name:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/EntityComboBoxView.java[tags=renderer]
----


// [[filtering]]
// == Custom Filtering
//
// `entityComboBox` filtering, by default, is configured to only show items that contain the entered value. Custom filtering is also possible. For example, if you only want to show items that start with the user’s input:
//
// [source,java,indent=0]
// ----
// include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/EntityComboBoxView.java[tags=departmentsDc;filterEntityComboBox;filter]
// ----

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#alignSelf[alignSelf] -
<<allowCustomValue,allowCustomValue>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#ariaLabel[ariaLabel] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#ariaLabelledBy[ariaLabelledBy] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#allowedCharPattern[allowedCharPattern] -
xref:vc/components/comboBox.adoc#autoOpen[autoOpen] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#autofocus[autofocus] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#errorMessage[errorMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#focusShortcut[focusShortcut] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#helperText[helperText] -
<<itemsContainer,itemsContainer>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/components/entityPicker.adoc#metaClass[metaClass] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
<<opened,opened>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#overlayClass[overlayClass] -
xref:vc/components/comboBox.adoc#pageSize[pageSize] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#pattern[pattern] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#placeholder[placeholder] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredMessage[requiredMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#title[title] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[allowCustomValue]]
=== allowCustomValue

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/components/combo-box/#custom-value-entry" class="vaadin-docs-btn" target="_blank">Vaadin</a>
</div>
++++

If the `allowCustomValue` attribute is `true`, the user can input string values that do not match any existing item labels, which will fire <<CustomValueSetEvent,CustomValueSetEvent>>.

Note that `entityComboBox` doesn't do anything with the custom value string automatically. Use `CustomValueSetEvent` to determine how the custom value should be handled.

Default is `false`.

[[itemsContainer]]
=== itemsContainer

Sets the name of a data container which contains a list of items. The component will display the xref:data-model:entities.adoc#instance-name[instance name] of an entity instance.

[[opened]]
=== opened

Sets whether the drop-down list should be opened or not.

Default is `false`.

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
<<CustomValueSetEvent,CustomValueSetEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent] -
xref:vc/components/comboBox.adoc#itemLabelGenerator[itemLabelGenerator] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#statusChangeHandler[statusChangeHandler] -
xref:vc/components/textField.adoc#validator[validator] -
<<renderer, renderer>>

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[CustomValueSetEvent]]
=== CustomValueSetEvent

`com.vaadin.flow.component.combobox.ComboBoxBase.CustomValueSetEvent` is fired when the user enters a non-empty value that does not match any of the existing items. To enable input custom values, set the <<allowCustomValue,allowCustomValue>> attribute to `true`.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/entity-combobox-view.xml[tags=departmentField]
----

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/EntityComboBoxView.java[tags=departmentsDc;departmentField;dataManager;CustomValueSetEvent]
----

<1> Create a new instance and merge it into the context.
<2> Set the name of the newly created `department` entity.
<3> Add merged entity.

== Elements

<<actions,actions>> -
<<declarative-lazy-loading, itemsQuery>> -
xref:vc/miscellaneous/prefix-suffix.adoc[prefix] -
xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip] -
xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator]

Commit message:

Document Renderers as a separate section #930
(cherry picked from commit cc14b7de1e6a1d2fad328fcb46aad40050ddb46e)

content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/entityComboBox.adoc, after:

= entityComboBox
:page-aliases: vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/entity-combobox-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

An input field to select an xref:data-model:entities.adoc[entity] instance from a drop-down list and perform relevant actions. These can be both predefined actions such as updating instance details, as well as custom actions to perform more specific tasks.

This component is, in fact, a hybrid of the xref:flow-ui:vc/components/comboBox.adoc[comboBox] and xref:flow-ui:vc/components/entityPicker.adoc[entityPicker] components.

* XML element: `entityComboBox`

* Java class: `EntityComboBox`

== Basics

The `entityComboBox` component is commonly used when the field value must represent a reference to an entity. It enables users to select a particular entity instance with the ability to perform relevant actions.

Clicking the field or arrow button opens a drop-down list containing all existing instances of the entity:

[cols="a,a" grid=none, frame=none]
|===
| image::visual-components/components/entity-combobox-basics.png[align="center", width="220"]
| image::visual-components/components/entity-combobox-basics-2.png[align="center", width="220"]
|===

Note that unless you have configured <<lazy-loading, lazy loading>>, the component will load a list of all available instances into both the browser's memory and the server's memory. This can consume substantial system resources and may impact performance, especially for large number of items. Furthermore, users may find it challenging to search for a specific instance within a lengthy drop-down list.

TIP: If the expected number of items is large, such as thousands or more, or if making a selection requires providing additional context about each item, it is recommended to use xref:flow-ui:vc/components/entityPicker.adoc[entityPicker].

// === When to use
//
// Use `entityComboBox` if:
//
// * The field value is a reference to an entity instance.
// * Users need to select a single item.
// * The number of items is too large for xref:flow-ui:vc/components/radioButtonGroup.adoc[radioButtonGroup] or xref:flow-ui:vc/components/listBox.adoc[listBox].
// * Users need to perform actions on the selected entity instance.

[[quick-start]]
== Quick Start

The following example demonstrates how to use the `entityCombobox` component to select the department the user belongs to:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/entity-combobox-view.xml[tags=data;userDc;departmentsDc;dataLoadCoordinator;layout;basics]
----

<1> Data container to hold the `User` instance which is currently being edited.
<2> Fetch plan extended to retrieve a collection of `Department` instances that will be available for selection.
<3> Data container to hold a collection of all existing `Department` instances.
<4> Data load coordinator to automatically supply the component with instances to select from.
<5> Binding the component to a data container and property. Specifying the container that holds the list of items to be selected.
<6> Adding a predefined action to clear the selection.

For more interactive examples of the `entityComboBox` and its variations, see:

* https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/entity-combobox-simple[entityCombobox with actions]
* https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/entity-combobox-items-query[entityComboBox with items fetchCallback^]

[[data-binding]]
== Data Binding

Data binding refers to linking a visual component to a data container. Changes in the visual component or corresponding data container can trigger updates to one another. See xref:data/data-examples.adoc[] for more details.

=== Select an instance

If you simply need a way to select an instance of a specific entity, specify that entity using the `metaClass` attribute. To specify a collection of instances for selection use the <<itemsContainer,itemsContainer>> attribute.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/entity-combobox-view.xml[tags=binding-metaclass]
----

=== Select an instance to update a related attribute

Selecting an instance is often intended to update an attribute within another instance. In the <<quick-start, example above>>, selecting a `Department` instance updates the `User` instance by associating it with the chosen department.

In such cases you will need to bind the component to the data container holding the instance and specify the attribute to be updated using the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] and xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] attributes respectively. To specify a collection of instances for selection use the <<itemsContainer,itemsContainer>> attribute.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/entity-combobox-view.xml[tags=binding-container]
----

[[actions]]
== Actions

Initially `entityComboBox` does not have any actions. You need to add them explicitly, for example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/entity-combobox-view.xml[tags=actions]
----

[TIP]
====
To add `action` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the view descriptor XML or in the *Jmix UI* structure panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#add-picker-action[Add->Action] button in the *Jmix UI* inspector panel.
====

See detailed information on defining custom and predefined actions in the xref:flow-ui:vc/components/entityPicker.adoc#actions[Actions] section for `entityPicker`.

[[lazy-loading]]
== Lazy Loading

The component supports loading items in batches in response to user input, rather than loading all items at once. This helps to ensure a smooth user experience, even when dealing with a large number of items.

[[declarative-lazy-loading]]
=== Declarative Configuration

To implement lazy loading in the view descriptor, instead of specifying the `itemsContainer` attribute configure the `itemsQuery` nested element. For example, to load at most 30 items and show them in the list, do the following:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/entity-combobox-view.xml[tags=items-query]
----

<1> The `pageSize` attribute defines the batch size when loading data from the database. It is 50 by default.
<2> Attributes in the `itemsQuery` provide control over the fetching process. They are as follows:
    *  `class` – specifies a full qualified name of the entity class which instances will be fetched.
    *  `searchStringFormat` – a string that contains a variable placeholder, which is subsequently replaced with an actual value.
    * `escapeValueForLike` – specifies whether to search for values containing special symbols. By default, this value is `false`.
    * `fetchPlan` – and optional descriptor of inline fetch plan.
<3> A JPQL query.

[[programmatic-lazy-loading]]
=== Programmatic Configuration

Items fetching can also be defined programmatically using the `itemsFetchCallback` handler. For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/entity-combobox-view.xml[tags=programmatic-fetching]
----

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/EntityComboBoxView.java[tags=departmentField;itemsFetchCallback]
----

In this example, data is fetched using xref:data-access:data-manager.adoc[DataManager], but you can use this approach to load from a custom service as well.

[[renderer]]
== Custom Renderer

By default, instances displayed in a drop-down list are typically rendered as plain text. A custom renderer allows you to define a rendering logic for each item in the drop-down, enabling you to include various components, icons, or even layouts.

For example, define the following renderer to add an icon before a department name:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/EntityComboBoxView.java[tags=renderer]
----

[[fragment-renderer]]
Alternatively, you can render items using a nested `fragmentRenderer` element. Refer to the xref:flow-ui:vc/miscellaneous/renderers.adoc#fragment-renderer[Fragment Renderer] section for more information.

// [[filtering]]
// == Custom Filtering
//
// `entityComboBox` filtering, by default, is configured to only show items that contain the entered value. Custom filtering is also possible. For example, if you only want to show items that start with the user’s input:
//
// [source,java,indent=0]
// ----
// include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/EntityComboBoxView.java[tags=departmentsDc;filterEntityComboBox;filter]
// ----

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#alignSelf[alignSelf] -
<<allowCustomValue,allowCustomValue>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#ariaLabel[ariaLabel] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#ariaLabelledBy[ariaLabelledBy] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#allowedCharPattern[allowedCharPattern] -
xref:vc/components/comboBox.adoc#autoOpen[autoOpen] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#autofocus[autofocus] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#errorMessage[errorMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#focusShortcut[focusShortcut] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#helperText[helperText] -
<<itemsContainer,itemsContainer>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/components/entityPicker.adoc#metaClass[metaClass] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
<<opened,opened>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#overlayClass[overlayClass] -
xref:vc/components/comboBox.adoc#pageSize[pageSize] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#pattern[pattern] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#placeholder[placeholder] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredMessage[requiredMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#title[title] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[allowCustomValue]]
=== allowCustomValue

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/components/combo-box/#custom-value-entry" class="vaadin-docs-btn" target="_blank">Vaadin</a>
</div>
++++

If the `allowCustomValue` attribute is `true`, the user can input string values that do not match any existing item labels, which will fire <<CustomValueSetEvent,CustomValueSetEvent>>.

Note that `entityComboBox` doesn't do anything with the custom value string automatically. Use `CustomValueSetEvent` to determine how the custom value should be handled.

Default is `false`.

[[itemsContainer]]
=== itemsContainer

Sets the name of a data container which contains a list of items. The component will display the xref:data-model:entities.adoc#instance-name[instance name] of an entity instance.

[[opened]]
=== opened

Sets whether the drop-down list should be opened or not.

Default is `false`.

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
<<CustomValueSetEvent,CustomValueSetEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent] -
xref:vc/components/comboBox.adoc#itemLabelGenerator[itemLabelGenerator] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#statusChangeHandler[statusChangeHandler] -
xref:vc/components/textField.adoc#validator[validator] -
<<renderer, renderer>>

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[CustomValueSetEvent]]
=== CustomValueSetEvent

`com.vaadin.flow.component.combobox.ComboBoxBase.CustomValueSetEvent` is fired when the user enters a non-empty value that does not match any of the existing items. To enable input custom values, set the <<allowCustomValue,allowCustomValue>> attribute to `true`.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/entity-combobox-view.xml[tags=departmentField]
----

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/entitycombobox/EntityComboBoxView.java[tags=departmentsDc;departmentField;dataManager;CustomValueSetEvent]
----

<1> Create a new instance and merge it into the context.
<2> Set the name of the newly created `department` entity.
<3> Add merged entity.

== Elements

<<actions,actions>> -
<<fragment-renderer,fragmentRenderer>> -
<<declarative-lazy-loading, itemsQuery>> -
xref:vc/miscellaneous/prefix-suffix.adoc[prefix] -
xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip] -
xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator]
