content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/propertyFilter.adoc, before:

= propertyFilter

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/property-filter-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`propertyFilter` is a component used for displaying a single filtering condition. The component is related to the xref:data-model:entities.adoc[entity] property and can automatically render a proper layout for setting a condition value.

The component can be used inside the `filter` component and independently.

* XML element: `propertyFilter`

* Java class: `PropertyFilter`

== Basics

In the general case, `propertyFilter` consists of a label with the entity property caption, operation label or selector (`=`, `contains`, `in`, `>`, etc.), and a field for editing a condition value.

image::flow-ui:visual-components/components/property-filter-basics.png[align="center", width="315"]

The example of the `propertyFilter` declaration is provided below.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/propertyfilter/property-filter-view.xml[tags=data;usersDc;layout;basics]
----

<<dataLoader,dataLoader>>, <<property,property>>, and <<operation,operation>> are required attributes.

You can use multiple `propertyFilter` components in a screen. Components that have value are applied to the data loaders.

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
<<autoApply,autoApply>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
<<dataLoader,dataLoader>> -
<<defaultValue,defaultValue>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#errorMessage[errorMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#helperText[helperText] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] -
<<label,label>> -
<<labelPosition,labelPosition>> -
<<labelVisible,labelVisible>> -
<<labelWidth,labelWidth>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
<<operation,operation>> -
<<operationEditable,operationEditable>> -
<<operationTextVisible,operationTextVisible>> -
<<parameterName,parameterName>> -
<<property,property>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredIndicatorVisible[requiredIndicatorVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredMessage[requiredMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[autoApply]]
=== autoApply

Sets whether the property filter should be automatically applied to the `DataLoader` when the condition value is changed. The default value is `true`.

[[dataLoader]]
=== dataLoader

`dataLoader` is a required attribute. It sets a xref:flow-ui:data-components.adoc[data loader] related to the current `propertyFilter`.

[[defaultValue]]
=== defaultValue

Sets the default value for the filter condition.

[[label]]
=== label

Sets the custom label of the property filter condition. If not specified, it is generated automatically based on the entity property caption and the operation label.

TIP: If you set the `label` attribute, the operation label or selector will not be displayed.

[[labelPosition]]
=== labelPosition

The `labelPosition` attribute defines the filter label position:

* `TOP` - label is displayed atop the property filter.
* `ASIDE` - label is displayed on the side of the property filter.

The default value is `ASIDE`.

[[labelVisible]]
=== labelVisible

Sets the <<label,label>> visible or not. Default value is `true`.

[[labelWidth]]
=== labelWidth

Sets the <<label,label>> width. The width should be in a format understood by the browser, for example, `"100px"` or `"2.5em"`.

[[operation]]
=== operation

`operation` is a required attribute. It sets a filtering operation. The operation can be of the following types:

* `EQUAL` is suitable for string, numeric, boolean, date/time, reference and enum attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column matches the condition value in the filter.
* `NOT_EQUAL` is suitable for string, numeric, boolean, date/time, reference and enum attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column does not match the condition value in the filter.
* `GREATER` is suitable for numeric and date/time attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is greater than the condition value in the filter.
* `GREATER_OR_EQUAL` is suitable for numeric and date/time attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is greater than or the same as the condition value in the filter.
* `LESS` is suitable for numeric and date/time attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is less than the condition value in the filter.
* `LESS_OR_EQUAL` is suitable for numeric and date/time attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is less than or the same as the condition value in the filter.
* `CONTAINS` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column has the condition value in the filter.
* `NOT_CONTAINS` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column does not contain the condition value in the filter.
* `STARTS_WITH` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column begins with the condition value in the filter.
* `ENDS_WITH` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column ends with the condition value in the filter.
* `IS_SET` is suitable for string, numeric, boolean, date/time, reference and enum attributes. The operator tests only the data in the property column that are not null. The `comboBox` component, generated for this operation, displays two values: `Yes` and `No`. If the user selects `Yes`, results include only entity instances where there is data in the column. Otherwise, results include only entity instances where there is no data in the column.

[[operationEditable]]
=== operationEditable

Sets whether an operation selector is visible. Possible values are `true` and `false`. The default value is `false`. If you set `operationEditable = true`, the operation field enables selecting the condition operator in run-time. The list of available operators depends on the attribute type.

[[operationTextVisible]]
=== operationTextVisible

The `operationTextVisible` attribute defines the visibility of the operation label. Possible values are `true` and `false` (`true` by default).

[[parameterName]]
=== parameterName

The `parameterName` attribute sets the name of the associated query parameter name, used by condition. If not defined, then the parameter name is randomly generated.

[[property]]
=== property

Sets the related entity property name or properties path (for example, `name`, `order`, `order.date`).

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent] -
<<OperationChangeEvent,OperationChangeEvent>> -
<<validator,validator>>

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[OperationChangeEvent]]
=== OperationChangeEvent

The `OperationChangeEvent` is sent when the operation property is changed.

[[validator]]
=== validator

Adds a xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] instance to the component. The validator must throw `ValidationException` if the value is not valid.

If you are not satisfied with the predefined validators, add your own validator instance:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/propertyfilter/PropertyFilterView.java[tags=validator]
----

== Elements

xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip] -
xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator]

Commit message:

Document Flow UI propertyFilter #497
(cherry picked from commit 1e0ab2932d59bb59c335ce5ba2f1024392f85c2c)

content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/propertyFilter.adoc, after:

= propertyFilter

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/property-filter-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`propertyFilter` defines a filtering condition based on a particular property of an xref:data-model:entities.adoc[entity].

The component can be used inside the xref:flow-ui:vc/components/genericFilter.adoc[genericFilter] component or independently.

* XML element: `propertyFilter`

* Java class: `PropertyFilter`

== Basics

In the general case, `propertyFilter` consists of a label with the entity property caption, operation label or selector (`=`, `contains`, `in`, `>`, etc.), and a field for editing a condition value.

image::flow-ui:visual-components/components/property-filter-basics.png[align="center", width="315"]

The example of the `propertyFilter` declaration is provided below.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/propertyfilter/property-filter-view.xml[tags=data;usersDc;layout;basics]
----

<<dataLoader,dataLoader>>, <<property,property>>, and <<operation,operation>> are required attributes.

You can use multiple `propertyFilter` components connected to one data loader. Thus, filtering can be performed according to several conditions.

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
<<autoApply,autoApply>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
<<dataLoader,dataLoader>> -
<<defaultValue,defaultValue>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#errorMessage[errorMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#helperText[helperText] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] -
<<label,label>> -
<<labelPosition,labelPosition>> -
<<labelVisible,labelVisible>> -
<<labelWidth,labelWidth>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
<<operation,operation>> -
<<operationEditable,operationEditable>> -
<<operationTextVisible,operationTextVisible>> -
<<parameterName,parameterName>> -
<<property,property>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredIndicatorVisible[requiredIndicatorVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredMessage[requiredMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[autoApply]]
=== autoApply

Sets whether the property filter should be automatically applied to the `DataLoader` when the condition value is changed. The default value is `true`.

[[dataLoader]]
=== dataLoader

`dataLoader` is a required attribute. It sets a xref:flow-ui:data-components.adoc[data loader] related to the current `propertyFilter`.

[[defaultValue]]
=== defaultValue

Sets the default value for the filter condition.

[[label]]
=== label

Sets the custom label of the property filter condition. If not specified, it is generated automatically based on the entity property caption and the operation label.

TIP: If you set the `label` attribute, the operation label or selector will not be displayed.

[[labelPosition]]
=== labelPosition

The `labelPosition` attribute defines the filter label position:

* `TOP` - label is displayed atop the property filter.
* `ASIDE` - label is displayed on the side of the property filter.

The default value is `ASIDE`.

[[labelVisible]]
=== labelVisible

Sets the <<label,label>> visible or not. Default value is `true`.

[[labelWidth]]
=== labelWidth

Sets the <<label,label>> width. The width should be in a format understood by the browser, for example, `"100px"` or `"2.5em"`.

[[operation]]
=== operation

`operation` is a required attribute. It sets a filtering operation. The operation can be of the following types:

* `EQUAL` is suitable for string, numeric, boolean, date/time, reference and enum attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column matches the condition value in the filter.
* `NOT_EQUAL` is suitable for string, numeric, boolean, date/time, reference and enum attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column does not match the condition value in the filter.
* `GREATER` is suitable for numeric and date/time attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is greater than the condition value in the filter.
* `GREATER_OR_EQUAL` is suitable for numeric and date/time attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is greater than or the same as the condition value in the filter.
* `LESS` is suitable for numeric and date/time attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is less than the condition value in the filter.
* `LESS_OR_EQUAL` is suitable for numeric and date/time attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is less than or the same as the condition value in the filter.
* `CONTAINS` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column has the condition value in the filter.
* `NOT_CONTAINS` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column does not contain the condition value in the filter.
* `STARTS_WITH` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column begins with the condition value in the filter.
* `ENDS_WITH` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column ends with the condition value in the filter.
* `IS_SET` is suitable for string, numeric, boolean, date/time, reference and enum attributes. The operator tests only the data in the property column that are not null. The `comboBox` component, generated for this operation, displays two values: `Yes` and `No`. If the user selects `Yes`, results include only entity instances where there is data in the column. Otherwise, results include only entity instances where there is no data in the column.

[[operationEditable]]
=== operationEditable

Sets whether an operation selector is visible. Possible values are `true` and `false`. The default value is `false`. If you set `operationEditable = true`, the operation field enables selecting the condition operator in run-time. The list of available operators depends on the attribute type.

[[operationTextVisible]]
=== operationTextVisible

The `operationTextVisible` attribute defines the visibility of the operation label. Possible values are `true` and `false` (`true` by default).

[[parameterName]]
=== parameterName

The `parameterName` attribute sets the name of the associated query parameter name, used by condition. If not defined, then the parameter name is randomly generated.

[[property]]
=== property

Sets the related entity property name or properties path (for example, `name`, `order`, `order.date`).

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent] -
<<OperationChangeEvent,OperationChangeEvent>> -
<<validator,validator>>

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[OperationChangeEvent]]
=== OperationChangeEvent

The `OperationChangeEvent` is sent when the operation property is changed.

[[validator]]
=== validator

Adds a xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] instance to the component. The validator must throw `ValidationException` if the value is not valid.

If you are not satisfied with the predefined validators, add your own validator instance:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/propertyfilter/PropertyFilterView.java[tags=validator]
----

== Elements

xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip] -
xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator]
