content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/timePicker.adoc, before:

= timePicker

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/time-picker-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`timePicker` lets users enter or select a time.

* XML element: `timePicker`

* Java class: `TypedTimePicker`

== Basics

Time can be entered directly using a keyboard or selected from an overlay with a list of time values. The overlay appears on clicking the field or the clock button.

image::visual-components/components/time-picker-basic.png[align="center", width="200"]

The following example defines a `timePicker` of `localTime` type with a label:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/timepicker/time-picker-view.xml[tags=basics]
----

== Data Types

`timePicker` is a typed component which supports common data types for storing a time value:

* `localTime`
* `offsetTime`
* `time`

To change the type, use the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#datatype[datatype] attribute.

== Step

The default interval between the items displayed in the overlay is set to one hour. It is possible to set a custom step value.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/timepicker/TimePickerView.java[tags=timePicker;onInit;step]
----

image::visual-components/components/time-picker-step.png[align="center", width="210"]


The step must divide an hour or day evenly. For example, "15 minutes", "30 minutes" and "2 hours" are valid steps, whereas "42 minutes" isn’t.

NOTE: The overlay doesn't appear for steps less than 15 minutes, to avoid showing an impractical number of choices.


== Time Format
//todo: make changes upon completing jmix#858 ticket
The default date and time format in the application is defined by the xref:data-model:data-types.adoc#localized-format-strings[localized data format strings]. To use a different format, add your own format strings to the message bundle.

To change the date and time format for a particular component, set its locale to one that uses the desired format.
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/timepicker/TimePickerView.java[tags=timePicker;onInit;locale]
----

== Time Range

To restrict the input to a specific time range, specify a minimum and maximum value.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/timepicker/TimePickerView.java[tags=timePicker;onInit;time-range]
----

Apply a <<validator, validator>> to set a more specific time range.

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#allowedCharPattern[allowedCharPattern] -
<<autoOpen, autoOpen>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#clearButtonVisible[clearButtonVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#datatype[datatype] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#errorMessage[errorMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#helperText[helperText] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#placeholder[placeholder] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredIndicatorVisible[requiredIndicatorVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredMessage[requiredMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[autoOpen]]
=== autoOpen

Defines whether an overlay opens when the user interacts with the component.

* If set to `true`, the overlay opens on user input and on clicking the clock button or the field.
* If set to `false`, the overlay opens only on clicking the clock button.

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
<<ClientValidatedEvent, ClientValidatedEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent] -
<<InvalidChangeEvent, InvalidChangeEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#TypedValueChangeEvent[TypedValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#statusChangeHandler[statusChangeHandler] -
<<validator, validator>>

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[ClientValidatedEvent]]
=== ClientValidatedEvent

`ClientValidatedEvent` is sent by the web component whenever it is validated on the client-side.

[[InvalidChangeEvent]]
=== InvalidChangeEvent

`com.vaadin.flow.component.datepicker.DatePicker.InvalidChangeEvent` is sent when the value of the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] attribute of the component changes.

[[validator]]
=== validator

Adds a xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] instance to the component. The validator must throw `ValidationException` if the value is not valid.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/timepicker/TimePickerView.java[tags=validator]
----

== Elements

xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip] -
xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator]

== See Also

See https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/components/time-picker[Vaadin Docs^] for more information.

Commit message:

Describe new XML attributes in picker components #578

content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/timePicker.adoc, after:

= timePicker

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/time-picker-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`timePicker` lets users enter or select a time.

* XML element: `timePicker`

* Java class: `TypedTimePicker`

== Basics

Time can be entered directly using a keyboard or selected from an overlay with a list of time values. The overlay appears on clicking the field or the clock button.

image::visual-components/components/time-picker-basic.png[align="center", width="200"]

The following example defines a `timePicker` of `localTime` type with a label:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/timepicker/time-picker-view.xml[tags=basics]
----

== Data Types

`timePicker` is a typed component which supports common data types for storing a time value:

* `localTime`
* `offsetTime`
* `time`

To change the type, use the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#datatype[datatype] attribute.

== Step

The default interval between the items displayed in the overlay is set to one hour. A custom step value can be set using the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#step[step] attribute. This can also be done in the screen controller:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/timepicker/TimePickerView.java[tags=timePicker;onInit;step]
----

image::visual-components/components/time-picker-step.png[align="center", width="210"]

The step must divide an hour or day evenly. For example, "15 minutes", "30 minutes" and "2 hours" are valid steps, whereas "42 minutes" isn’t.

NOTE: The overlay doesn't appear for steps less than 15 minutes, to avoid showing an impractical number of choices.

// == Time Format
// //todo: make changes upon completing jmix#858 ticket
// The default date and time format in the application is defined by the xref:data-model:data-types.adoc#localized-format-strings[localized format strings]. To use a different format, add your own format strings to the message bundle.

== Time Range

To restrict the input to a specific time range, specify a minimum and maximum value using the <<max, max>> and <<min,min>> attributes. This can also be done in the screen controller:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/timepicker/TimePickerView.java[tags=timePicker;onInit;time-range]
----

Apply a <<validator, validator>> to set a more specific time range.

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#allowedCharPattern[allowedCharPattern] -
<<autoOpen, autoOpen>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#clearButtonVisible[clearButtonVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#datatype[datatype] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#errorMessage[errorMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#helperText[helperText] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
<<max, max>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
<<min, min>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#placeholder[placeholder] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredIndicatorVisible[requiredIndicatorVisible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredMessage[requiredMessage] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#step[step] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[autoOpen]]
=== autoOpen

Defines whether an overlay opens when the user interacts with the component.

* If set to `true`, the overlay opens on user input and on clicking the clock button or the field.
* If set to `false`, the overlay opens only on clicking the clock button.

[[max]]
=== max

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/components/time-picker#minimum-maximum-value" class="vaadin-docs-btn" target="_blank">Vaadin</a>
</div>
++++

Specifies the latest time that can be selected. Accepted format is `hh:mm`.

[[min]]
=== min

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/components/time-picker#minimum-maximum-value" class="vaadin-docs-btn" target="_blank">Vaadin</a>
</div>
++++

Specifies the earliest time that can be selected. Accepted format is `hh:mm`.

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
<<ClientValidatedEvent, ClientValidatedEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent] -
<<InvalidChangeEvent, InvalidChangeEvent>> -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#TypedValueChangeEvent[TypedValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#statusChangeHandler[statusChangeHandler] -
<<validator, validator>>

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[ClientValidatedEvent]]
=== ClientValidatedEvent

`ClientValidatedEvent` is sent by the web component whenever it is validated on the client-side.

[[InvalidChangeEvent]]
=== InvalidChangeEvent

`com.vaadin.flow.component.datepicker.DatePicker.InvalidChangeEvent` is sent when the value of the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#invalid[invalid] attribute of the component changes.

[[validator]]
=== validator

Adds a xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] instance to the component. The validator must throw `ValidationException` if the value is not valid.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/timepicker/TimePickerView.java[tags=validator]
----

== Elements

xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip] -
xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator]

== See Also

See https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/components/time-picker[Vaadin Docs^] for more information.
