content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/twinColumn.adoc, before:

= twinColumn
:page-aliases: vcl/components/twin-column.adoc

A component to intuitively select items from a list or collection by moving them between two columns.

* XML element: `twinColumn`

* Java class: `TwinColumn`

== Basics

The component puts two columns side by side. The left column contains items that the user can select from. The right column displays currently selected items. Users can select one or more items and click buttons to move them between columns, adding or removing them from the selection.

image::visual-components/components/twin-column-basics.png[align="center", width="553"]

[[quick-start]]
== Quick Start

To create the component, use `twinColumn` XML element and set its `itemsContainer` attribute to a xref:data/collection-container.adoc[collection container]. The items within this container will appear in the columns.

The following example demonstrates how a basic twin column is created:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/twincolumn/twin-column-view.xml[tags=data;usersDc;facets;layout;quick-start]
----
<1> Include the xref:facets/dataLoadCoordinator.adoc[] facet to load data automatically.

// todo: Example with `dataContainer` attribute

[[multi-select]]
== Multi Select

The `twinColumn` component is always in multi-select mode, allowing users to select and move multiple items. You can also provide the ability to move all items at once by setting the `selectAllButtonsVisible` attribute:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/twincolumn/twin-column-view.xml[tags=multi-select]
----

image::visual-components/components/twin-column-select-all-buttons.png[align="center", width="553"]

[[column-labels]]
== Column Labels

You can provide descriptive labels for each column with the `itemsColumnLabel` and `selectedItemsColumnLabel` attributes:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/twincolumn/twin-column-view.xml[tags=column-labels]
----

image::visual-components/components/twin-column-labels.png[align="center", width="553"]

[[items-order]]
== Items Order

By default, items do not maintain their original position in the list. Each time an item is moved to another column, it is added to the bottom of the list. You can choose to preserve the original order of items at all times by setting `reorderable = "true"`.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/twincolumn/twin-column-view.xml[tags=items-order]
----

[[theme-variants]]
== Theme Variants

The component's appearance is customizable with the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] attribute, which allows you to select between four different options:

.`checkboxes`
[%collapsible]
====
Use checkmarks to indicate which items are clicked, instead of changing the row background color.

image::visual-components/components/twin-column-checkboxes.png[align="center", width="553"]
====

.`no-border`
[%collapsible]
====
Removes component's border.

image::visual-components/components/twin-column-no-border.png[align="center", width="553"]
====

.`no-row-border`
[%collapsible]
====
Removes row separators.

image::visual-components/components/twin-column-no-row-border.png[align="center", width="553"]
====

.`no-space-between-actions`
[%collapsible]
====
Removes space between action buttons.

image::visual-components/components/twin-column-no-space-between-actions.png[align="center", width="553"]
====

TIP: Use a combination of themes separated by comma to change multiple visual aspects at once.

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#alignSelf[alignSelf] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#ariaLabel[ariaLabel] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#ariaLabelledBy[ariaLabelledBy] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#helperText[helperText] -
<<column-labels, itemsColumnLabel>> -
<<quick-start, itemsContainer>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
<<items-order, reorderable>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredMessage[requiredMessage] -
<<multi-select, selectAllButtonsVisible>> -
<<column-labels, selectedItemsColumnLabel>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/components/textField.adoc#validator[validator]

== Elements

xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator]

Commit message:

TwinColumn component documentation #787
(cherry picked from commit c8de8a17baa659cdb9ef37e9cdbdde6b048b8517)

content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/twinColumn.adoc, after:

= twinColumn
:page-aliases: vcl/components/twin-column.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/twin-column-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

A component to intuitively select items from a list or collection by moving them between two columns.

* XML element: `twinColumn`

* Java class: `TwinColumn`

== Basics

The component puts two columns side by side. The left column contains items that the user can select from. The right column displays currently selected items. Users can select one or more items and click buttons to move them between columns, adding or removing them from the selection.

image::visual-components/components/twin-column-basics.png[align="center", width="553"]

To create the component, use `twinColumn` XML element and set its `itemsContainer` attribute to a xref:data/collection-container.adoc[collection container]. The items within this container will appear in the columns.

The following example demonstrates how a basic twin column is created:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/twincolumn/twin-column-view.xml[tags=data;usersDc;facets;layout;quick-start]
----
<1> Include the xref:facets/dataLoadCoordinator.adoc[] facet to load data automatically.

[[data-binding]]
== Data Binding

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/twin-column-dataaware" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

Data binding refers to linking a visual component to a xref:data/data-containers.adoc[data container]. Changes in the visual component or corresponding data container can trigger updates to one another. See xref:data/data-examples.adoc[] for more details.

To create `multiSelectComboBoxPicker` connected to data, use the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] and xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] attributes. The `itemsContainer` attribute is used to create a list of items.

[[multi-select]]
== Multi Select

The `twinColumn` component is always in multi-select mode, allowing users to select and move multiple items. You can also provide the ability to move all items at once by setting the `selectAllButtonsVisible` attribute:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/twincolumn/twin-column-view.xml[tags=multi-select]
----

image::visual-components/components/twin-column-select-all-buttons.png[align="center", width="553"]

[[column-labels]]
== Column Labels

You can provide descriptive labels for each column with the `itemsColumnLabel` and `selectedItemsColumnLabel` attributes:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/twincolumn/twin-column-view.xml[tags=column-labels]
----

image::visual-components/components/twin-column-labels.png[align="center", width="553"]

[[items-order]]
== Items Order

By default, items do not maintain their original position in the list. Each time an item is moved to another column, it is added to the bottom of the list. You can choose to preserve the original order of items at all times by setting `reorderable = "true"`.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/twincolumn/twin-column-view.xml[tags=items-order]
----

[[theme-variants]]
== Theme Variants

The component's appearance is customizable with the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] attribute, which allows you to select between four different options:

.`checkboxes`
[%collapsible]
====
Use checkmarks to indicate which items are clicked, instead of changing the row background color.

image::visual-components/components/twin-column-checkboxes.png[align="center", width="553"]
====

.`no-border`
[%collapsible]
====
Removes component's border.

image::visual-components/components/twin-column-no-border.png[align="center", width="553"]
====

.`no-row-border`
[%collapsible]
====
Removes row separators.

image::visual-components/components/twin-column-no-row-border.png[align="center", width="553"]
====

.`no-space-between-actions`
[%collapsible]
====
Removes space between action buttons.

image::visual-components/components/twin-column-no-space-between-actions.png[align="center", width="553"]
====

TIP: Use a combination of themes separated by comma to change multiple visual aspects at once.

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#alignSelf[alignSelf] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#ariaLabel[ariaLabel] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#ariaLabelledBy[ariaLabelledBy] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#dataContainer[dataContainer] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#helperText[helperText] -
<<column-labels, itemsColumnLabel>> -
<<_basics, itemsContainer>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#readOnly[readOnly] -
<<items-order, reorderable>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#requiredMessage[requiredMessage] -
<<multi-select, selectAllButtonsVisible>> -
<<column-labels, selectedItemsColumnLabel>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#ComponentValueChangeEvent[ComponentValueChangeEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/components/textField.adoc#validator[validator]

== Elements

xref:vc/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator]
