content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/virtualList.adoc, before:

= virtualList

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/virtual-list-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

The `virtualList` component is designed for displaying lists of items with a complex content. Only the visible portion of items is rendered at a time.

* XML element: `virtualList`

* Java class: `JmixVirtualList`

== Basics

`virtualList` is connected to a xref:flow-ui:data/data-containers.adoc[data container]. By default, it shows the xref:data-model:entities.adoc#instance-name[instance name] of the entity in the container. Using the <<Renderer,renderer>> handler, you can display custom content.

image::visual-components/components/virtual-list-basics.png[align="center", width="542"]

Below is an example of using `virtualList` in a list view instead of `dataGrid`:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/virtuallist/virtual-list-view.xml[tags=data;layout;virtualList]
----

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/virtuallist/VirtualListView.java[tags=uiComponents;renderer]
----

Note that items in `virtualList` can't be selected or navigated using the keyboard. The standard xref:flow-ui:actions/list-actions.adoc[List Component Actions] will not work with `virtualList`. If needed, define your own actions for CRUD operations.

[[inline-editor]]
== Inline Editor

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/virtual-list-inline-editor" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

You can use `virtualList` to build an inline editor. Check out an example in the *UI Samples* application.

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#alignSelf[alignSelf] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#focusShortcut[focusShortcut] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
<<itemsContainer,itemsContainer>> -
<<itemsEnum,itemsEnum>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[itemsContainer]]
=== itemsContainer

Sets the name of a data container which contains a list of items. The component will display the entity's instance name.

[[itemsEnum]]
=== itemsEnum

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/virtual-list-custom-items" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

Defines the xref:data-model:enumerations.adoc[enumeration] class for creating a list of items.

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent] -
<<Renderer,Renderer>> -
<<ValueProvider,ValueProvider>>

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[Renderer]]
=== Renderer

A custom renderer for list items can only be set in the view controller using Java code.

You can use the `setRenderer()` method or `@Supply` annotation to do this.

* Example of using `@Supply` annotation:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/virtuallist/VirtualListView.java[tags=supply-renderer]
----

* Example of using the `setRenderer()` method:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/virtuallist/VirtualListView.java[tags=onInit]
----

[[ValueProvider]]
=== ValueProvider

It's possible to specify a renderer using `ValueProvider` if you want to display plain text.

== See Also

See {vaadin-docs}/components/virtual-list[Vaadin Docs^] for more information.

Commit message:

Document Renderers as a separate section #930
(cherry picked from commit cc14b7de1e6a1d2fad328fcb46aad40050ddb46e)

content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/components/virtualList.adoc, after:

= virtualList

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/virtual-list-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

The `virtualList` component is designed for displaying lists of items with a complex content. Only the visible portion of items is rendered at a time.

* XML element: `virtualList`

* Java class: `JmixVirtualList`

== Basics

`virtualList` is connected to a xref:flow-ui:data/data-containers.adoc[data container]. By default, it shows the xref:data-model:entities.adoc#instance-name[instance name] of the entity in the container. Using the <<Renderer,renderer>> handler, you can display custom content.

image::visual-components/components/virtual-list-basics.png[align="center", width="542"]

[[fragment-renderer]]
Alternatively, you can render items using a nested `fragmentRenderer` element. Refer to the xref:flow-ui:vc/miscellaneous/renderers.adoc#fragment-renderer[Fragment Renderer] section for more information.

Below is an example of using `virtualList` in a list view instead of `dataGrid`:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/component/virtuallist/virtual-list-view.xml[tags=data;layout;virtualList]
----

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/virtuallist/VirtualListView.java[tags=uiComponents;renderer]
----

Note that items in `virtualList` can't be selected or navigated using the keyboard. The standard xref:flow-ui:actions/list-actions.adoc[List Component Actions] will not work with `virtualList`. If needed, define your own actions for CRUD operations.

[[inline-editor]]
== Inline Editor

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/virtual-list-inline-editor" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

You can use `virtualList` to build an inline editor. Check out an example in the *UI Samples* application.

== Attributes

xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#alignSelf[alignSelf] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#focusShortcut[focusShortcut] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
<<itemsContainer,itemsContainer>> -
<<itemsEnum,itemsEnum>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]

[[itemsContainer]]
=== itemsContainer

Sets the name of a data container which contains a list of items. The component will display the entity's instance name.

[[itemsEnum]]
=== itemsEnum

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/virtual-list-custom-items" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

Defines the xref:data-model:enumerations.adoc[enumeration] class for creating a list of items.

== Handlers

xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#BlurEvent[BlurEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#FocusEvent[FocusEvent] -
<<Renderer,Renderer>> -
<<ValueProvider,ValueProvider>>

include::../handler-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[Renderer]]
=== Renderer

A custom renderer for list items can only be set in the view controller using Java code.

You can use the `setRenderer()` method or `@Supply` annotation to do this.

* Example of using `@Supply` annotation:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/virtuallist/VirtualListView.java[tags=supply-renderer]
----

* Example of using the `setRenderer()` method:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/component/virtuallist/VirtualListView.java[tags=onInit]
----

[[ValueProvider]]
=== ValueProvider

It's possible to specify a renderer using `ValueProvider` if you want to display plain text.

== See Also

See {vaadin-docs}/components/virtual-list[Vaadin Docs^] for more information.
