content/modules/webdav/pages/configuration.adoc, before:

= Configuration

[[application-properties]]
== Application Properties

[[jmix.webdav.applications]]
=== jmix.webdav.applications

Maps document formats to external applications that should open these documents. For each application you can configure a set of file extensions in the `"extensions"` property.

For example, the following mapping makes the system to open PPT and PPTX files with Microsoft PowerPoint:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
"ms-powerpoint":{\
  "name":"Microsoft PowerPoint",\
  "protocols":{"writable":"ms-powerpoint:ofe%7Cu%7C","read_only":"ms-powerpoint:ofv%7Cu%7C"},\
  "extensions":["ppt","pptx"]\
  }
----

Default value:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
{"ms-word":{"name":"Microsoft Word","protocols":{"writable":"ms-word:ofe%7Cu%7C",\
  "read_only":"ms-word:ofv%7Cu%7C"},"extensions":["docx","doc","rtf"]},\
  "ms-excel":{"name":"Microsoft Excel","protocols":{"writable":"ms-excel:ofe%7Cu%7C",\
  "read_only":"ms-excel:ofv%7Cu%7C"},"extensions":["xls","xlsx"]},\
  "ms-powerpoint":{"name":"Microsoft PowerPoint",\
  "protocols":{"writable":"ms-powerpoint:ofe%7Cu%7C","read_only":"ms-powerpoint:ofv%7Cu%7C"},\
  "extensions":["ppt","pptx"]}}
----

Example value for LibreOffice:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/application.properties[tags=jmix-webdav-applications]
----

[[jmix.webdav.authentication-method]]
=== jmix.webdav.authentication-method

Defines the authentication type.

Default value: `basic`.

Although it is not recommended, you can set `digest` in this property and avoid setting up HTTPS on the server. In this case, do not forget to change the <<jmix.webdav.url-prefix>> property for generating links with correct server protocol and port. Also note that all users must have hashed passwords stored separately in the database. The add-on updates these passwords when you change the password for a user, so you have to do it for each user after setting up the digest authentication.

[[jmix.webdav.auto-generate-unique-resource-uri]]
=== jmix.webdav.auto-generate-unique-resource-uri

If this property is set to `false` and a newly uploaded document has the URI already assigned to another document, the unique constraint violation occurs.

If this property is set to `true` and the URI is already assigned to some document, then the new path will be automatically generated with the `\{id}.extension` format.

Default value: `true`.

[[jmix.webdav.document-versions-cleaning-cron]]
=== jmix.webdav.document-versions-cleaning-cron

This property allows you to change the schedule of <<webdav-document-versions-cleaning-job,WebdavDocumentVersionsCleaningJob>> as http://www.quartz-scheduler.org/documentation/quartz-2.3.0/tutorials/crontrigger.html[cron^] expression if necessary.

The default value is `0 0 0 1 * ? *` (once a month).

[[jmix.webdav.expired-lock-cleaning-cron]]
=== jmix.webdav.expired-lock-cleaning-cron

This property allows you to change the schedule of <<expired-lock-cleaning-job,ExpiredLockCleaningJob>> as http://www.quartz-scheduler.org/documentation/quartz-2.3.0/tutorials/crontrigger.html[cron^] expression if necessary.

The default value is `0 0 0/2 ? * *` (every two hours).

[[jmix.webdav.file-storage]]
=== jmix.webdav.file-storage

Defines a xref:files:file-storage.adoc[file storage] used for storing WebDAV files.

By default, a file storage returned by `FileStorageLocator.getDefault()` is used.

[[jmix.webdav.lock-timeout]]
=== jmix.webdav.lock-timeout

Defines the default interval in milliseconds for a document xref:webdav:features.adoc#lock-unlock[locking].

Default value: `600000`.

[[jmix.webdav.use-default-document-versions-cleaner-quartz-configuration]]
=== jmix.webdav.use-default-document-versions-cleaner-quartz-configuration

This property allows you to disable the default configuration that creates and schedules the <<webdav-document-versions-cleaning-job,WebdavDocumentVersionsCleaningJob>> job.

Default value: `true`.

[[jmix.webdav.use-default-expired-lock-cleaner-quartz-configuration]]
=== jmix.webdav.use-default-expired-lock-cleaner-quartz-configuration

This property allows you to disable the default configuration that creates and schedules the <<expired-lock-cleaning-job,ExpiredLockCleaningJob>> job.

Default value: `true`.

[[jmix.webdav.url-prefix]]
=== jmix.webdav.url-prefix

Defines the prefix for WebDAV document link.

Default value: `\https://localhost:8443/webdav`.

It must match the root URL of the application with the additional `/webdav` path.

[[jmix.webdav.versioning-enabled]]
=== jmix.webdav.versioning-enabled

Enables versioning for all attributes of the `WebdavDocument` type without `@WebdavSupport` annotation.

Default value: `true`.

[[https]]
== Configuring HTTPS

HTTPS on the server is required to authenticate desktop applications. Below are simple instructions for setting up HTTPS in your development environment.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The use of a self-signed certificate is appropriate only for testing. Always use SSL certificates issued by a trusted authority for running production applications.
====

=== Creating a Keystore File

. Generate a keystore using the https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/tools/keytool.html[keytool utility^] provided by JDK:
+
[source,text]
----
keytool -genkey -keyalg RSA -alias localhost -keystore localhost.jks -validity 365 -keysize 2048
----
+
You will be asked for the keystore password and then for some names. Remember the password and the names.

. Export certificate from the keystore:
+
[source,text]
----
keytool -export -keystore localhost.jks -storepass <password> -alias localhost -file localhost.cer
----
+
Use the password entered on the first step instead of `<password>`.

. Register the certificate as trusted in your operating system.
+
* On macOS:
** Double-click on `localhost.cer` file in Finder. The *Keychain Access* application will open.
** Find your certificate under the name entered on the first step as "your first and last name" on the *Certficates* tab.
** Double-click the certificate and select *Trust -> When using this certificate: Always Trust*.

=== Configuring Server

This section explains how to use the certificate generated in the previous section in your application when it runs from the IDE or as an executable JAR.

. Create `src/main/resources/<base-package>/keystore` directory and copy `localhost.jks` into it.

. Set the following properties in the `application.properties` file replacing `<base-package>` and `<password>` with actual values:
+
[source,properties,indent=0]
----
# Enables HTTPS
server.ssl.enabled=true
# The format used for the keystore
server.ssl.key-store-type = JKS
# The path to the keystore containing the certificate
server.ssl.key-store = classpath:<base-package>/keystore/localhost.jks
# The password used to generate the keystore
server.ssl.key-store-password = <password>
# The alias mapped to the certificate
server.ssl.key-alias = localhost

# Changes the server's port
server.port = 8443
----

[[maintenance]]
== Maintenance Tasks

The WebDAV add-on contains a few maintenance tasks described below. To execute them regularly, include the Quartz add-on in your project as described in the xref:quartz:index.adoc#installation[Quartz / Installation] section.

[[expired-lock-cleaning-job]]
=== ExpiredLockCleaningJob

Removes expired xref:features.adoc#lock-unlock[lock] objects. This job runs every two hours by default.

To change the job schedule, use the xref:webdav:configuration.adoc#jmix.webdav.expired-lock-cleaning-cron[jmix.webdav.expired-lock-cleaning-cron] property.

[[webdav-document-versions-cleaning-job]]
=== WebdavDocumentVersionsCleaningJob

Removes `WebdavDocumentVersion` instances, which do not have links to documents. This job runs once in a month by default.

To change the job schedule, use the xref:webdav:configuration.adoc#jmix.webdav.document-versions-cleaning-cron[jmix.webdav.document-versions-cleaning-cron] property.

Commit message:

Webdav document can't be opened via LibreOffice 7.3+ #1559
(cherry picked from commit 9545cbc6b742ec7d490e342f51df8ee506a6de2a)

content/modules/webdav/pages/configuration.adoc, after:

= Configuration

[[application-properties]]
== Application Properties

[[jmix.webdav.applications]]
=== jmix.webdav.applications

Maps document formats to external applications that should open these documents. For each application you can configure a set of file extensions in the `"extensions"` property.

For example, the following mapping makes the system to open PPT and PPTX files with Microsoft PowerPoint:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
"ms-powerpoint":{\
  "name":"Microsoft PowerPoint",\
  "protocols":{"writable":"ms-powerpoint:ofe%7Cu%7C","read_only":"ms-powerpoint:ofv%7Cu%7C"},\
  "extensions":["ppt","pptx"]\
  }
----

Default value:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
{"ms-word":{"name":"Microsoft Word","protocols":{"writable":"ms-word:ofe%7Cu%7C",\
  "read_only":"ms-word:ofv%7Cu%7C"},"extensions":["docx","doc","rtf"]},\
  "ms-excel":{"name":"Microsoft Excel","protocols":{"writable":"ms-excel:ofe%7Cu%7C",\
  "read_only":"ms-excel:ofv%7Cu%7C"},"extensions":["xls","xlsx"]},\
  "ms-powerpoint":{"name":"Microsoft PowerPoint",\
  "protocols":{"writable":"ms-powerpoint:ofe%7Cu%7C","read_only":"ms-powerpoint:ofv%7Cu%7C"},\
  "extensions":["ppt","pptx"]}}
----

Example value for LibreOffice:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/application.properties[tags=jmix-webdav-applications]
----

[[jmix.webdav.authentication-method]]
=== jmix.webdav.authentication-method

Defines the authentication type.

Default value: `basic`.

Although it is not recommended, you can set `digest` in this property and avoid setting up HTTPS on the server. In this case, do not forget to change the <<jmix.webdav.url-prefix>> property for generating links with correct server protocol and port. Also note that all users must have hashed passwords stored separately in the database. The add-on updates these passwords when you change the password for a user, so you have to do it for each user after setting up the digest authentication.

[[jmix.webdav.auto-generate-unique-resource-uri]]
=== jmix.webdav.auto-generate-unique-resource-uri

If this property is set to `false` and a newly uploaded document has the URI already assigned to another document, the unique constraint violation occurs.

If this property is set to `true` and the URI is already assigned to some document, then the new path will be automatically generated with the `\{id}.extension` format.

Default value: `true`.

[[jmix.webdav.document-versions-cleaning-cron]]
=== jmix.webdav.document-versions-cleaning-cron

This property allows you to change the schedule of <<webdav-document-versions-cleaning-job,WebdavDocumentVersionsCleaningJob>> as http://www.quartz-scheduler.org/documentation/quartz-2.3.0/tutorials/crontrigger.html[cron^] expression if necessary.

The default value is `0 0 0 1 * ? *` (once a month).

[[jmix.webdav.expired-lock-cleaning-cron]]
=== jmix.webdav.expired-lock-cleaning-cron

This property allows you to change the schedule of <<expired-lock-cleaning-job,ExpiredLockCleaningJob>> as http://www.quartz-scheduler.org/documentation/quartz-2.3.0/tutorials/crontrigger.html[cron^] expression if necessary.

The default value is `0 0 0/2 ? * *` (every two hours).

[[jmix.webdav.file-storage]]
=== jmix.webdav.file-storage

Defines a xref:files:file-storage.adoc[file storage] used for storing WebDAV files.

By default, a file storage returned by `FileStorageLocator.getDefault()` is used.

[[jmix.webdav.lock-timeout]]
=== jmix.webdav.lock-timeout

Defines the default interval in milliseconds for a document xref:webdav:features.adoc#lock-unlock[locking].

Default value: `600000`.

[[jmix.webdav.use-default-document-versions-cleaner-quartz-configuration]]
=== jmix.webdav.use-default-document-versions-cleaner-quartz-configuration

This property allows you to disable the default configuration that creates and schedules the <<webdav-document-versions-cleaning-job,WebdavDocumentVersionsCleaningJob>> job.

Default value: `true`.

[[jmix.webdav.use-default-expired-lock-cleaner-quartz-configuration]]
=== jmix.webdav.use-default-expired-lock-cleaner-quartz-configuration

This property allows you to disable the default configuration that creates and schedules the <<expired-lock-cleaning-job,ExpiredLockCleaningJob>> job.

Default value: `true`.

[[jmix.webdav.url-prefix]]
=== jmix.webdav.url-prefix

Defines the prefix for WebDAV document link.

Default value: `\https://localhost:8443/webdav`.

It must match the root URL of the application with the additional `/webdav` path.

[[jmix.webdav.versioning-enabled]]
=== jmix.webdav.versioning-enabled

Enables versioning for all attributes of the `WebdavDocument` type without `@WebdavSupport` annotation.

Default value: `true`.

[[https]]
== Configuring HTTPS

HTTPS on the server is required to authenticate desktop applications. Below are simple instructions for setting up HTTPS in your development environment.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The use of a self-signed certificate is appropriate only for testing. Always use SSL certificates issued by a trusted authority for running production applications.
====

=== Creating a Keystore File

. Generate a keystore using the https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/tools/keytool.html[keytool utility^] provided by JDK:
+
[source,text]
----
keytool -genkey -keyalg RSA -alias localhost -keystore localhost.jks -validity 365 -keysize 2048
----
+
You will be asked for the keystore password and then for some names. Remember the password and the names.

. Export certificate from the keystore:
+
[source,text]
----
keytool -export -keystore localhost.jks -storepass <password> -alias localhost -file localhost.cer
----
+
Use the password entered on the first step instead of `<password>`.

. Register the certificate as trusted in your operating system.
+
* On macOS:
** Double-click on `localhost.cer` file in Finder. The *Keychain Access* application will open.
** Find your certificate under the name entered on the first step as "your first and last name" on the *Certficates* tab.
** Double-click the certificate and select *Trust -> When using this certificate: Always Trust*.

=== Generate trusted certificate

Some use cases like opening WebDAV files in recent LibreOffice and Firefox versions may not work with self-signed certificates. Trusted
certificates can be obtained from SSL-providers or generated with `certbot`. But for the development purposes you can issue
your own root certificate and sign development server's certificate with it. To simplify this task we recommend to use
`mkcert` generation/maintenance tool. You can skip this section in case you are ok with HTTPS warnings and restrictions.

. Install `mkcert` from the following repo: https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert[https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert].
You can build it either from source (requires golang to be installed) and copy binary to `/usr/local/bin` or use binaries provided by vendor.

. Once having `mkcert` in path you can generate and install root certificate:

    mkcert -install

. Navigate to keystore directory and create signed certificates for your development server:

    mkcert -pkcs12 localhost 127.0.0.1 ::1

. Create `.jks` keystore file with certificates for your project:

    keytool -importkeystore -srckeystore localhost+2.p12 -srcstoretype pkcs12 -destkeystore localhost.jks

=== Configuring Server

This section explains how to use the certificate generated in the previous section in your application when it runs from the IDE or as an executable JAR.

. Create `src/main/resources/<base-package>/keystore` directory and copy `localhost.jks` into it.

. Set the following properties in the `application.properties` file replacing `<base-package>` and `<password>` with actual values:
+
[source,properties,indent=0]
----
# Enables HTTPS
server.ssl.enabled=true
# The format used for the keystore
server.ssl.key-store-type = JKS
# The path to the keystore containing the certificate
server.ssl.key-store = classpath:<base-package>/keystore/localhost.jks
# The password used to generate the keystore
server.ssl.key-store-password = <password>
# The alias mapped to the certificate
server.ssl.key-alias = localhost

# Changes the server's port
server.port = 8443
----

[[maintenance]]
== Maintenance Tasks

The WebDAV add-on contains a few maintenance tasks described below. To execute them regularly, include the Quartz add-on in your project as described in the xref:quartz:index.adoc#installation[Quartz / Installation] section.

[[expired-lock-cleaning-job]]
=== ExpiredLockCleaningJob

Removes expired xref:features.adoc#lock-unlock[lock] objects. This job runs every two hours by default.

To change the job schedule, use the xref:webdav:configuration.adoc#jmix.webdav.expired-lock-cleaning-cron[jmix.webdav.expired-lock-cleaning-cron] property.

[[webdav-document-versions-cleaning-job]]
=== WebdavDocumentVersionsCleaningJob

Removes `WebdavDocumentVersion` instances, which do not have links to documents. This job runs once in a month by default.

To change the job schedule, use the xref:webdav:configuration.adoc#jmix.webdav.document-versions-cleaning-cron[jmix.webdav.document-versions-cleaning-cron] property.
