content/modules/oidc/pages/index.adoc, before:

= OpenID Connect

The Jmix OpenID Connect add-on provides predefined Spring Security configurations and a set of services that allow you to easily implement the following features in your applications:

* User authentication using an external OpenID Provider (e.g., Keycloak).
* Mapping user attributes and roles from the OpenID Provider user to Jmix user.
* Persisting user entity and role assignments after the user is successfully authenticated at the OpenID Provider.

The add-on leverages Spring Security support for OAuth2 and OpenID Connect 1.0. You may read about it in {spring-security-doc}/servlet/oauth2/index.html[Spring Security documentation^].

The add-on applies `OidcAutoConfiguration` unless it is explicitly disabled by setting the `jmix.oidc.use-default-configuration=false` application property. The configuration enables OpenID Connect authentication for UI and REST API URLs.

[[installation]]
== Installation

For automatic installation through Jmix Marketplace, follow instructions in the xref:ROOT:add-ons.adoc#installation[Add-ons] section.

For manual installation, add the following dependency to your `build.gradle`:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::example$/oidc-ex1/build.gradle[tags=dependencies]
----

[[client-configuration]]
== Client Configuration

After including the add-on in your project and before starting the application, you should configure the "client", which is a Jmix application that requires end-user authentication from the OpenID Provider.

Use the standard Spring Security approach to configure the client. You can do it by adding the following properties to the `application.properties` file:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/resources/application-doc1.properties[tags=client-properties]
----

`keycloak` in the property key is the provider id. It may have any value, for example `okta`, so the property will be `spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.okta.client-id`.

Client ID and client secret values must be taken from the OpenID provider.

The `issuer-uri` property contains a path to the OpenID Provider https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig[Configuration Endpoint^].

By default, the "sub" claim will be used as a Jmix user username. If you want to change it, use the following application property:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/resources/application-doc1.properties[tags=user-name-attribute]
----

[[using-default-addon-configuration]]
== Using Default Add-on Configuration

After including the add-on in the project, configuring the client and <<configuring-local-keycloak-instance,setting up Keycloak>>, you may start the application. In this case, the default add-on configuration will do the following:

* Non-authenticated users will be redirected to OpenID Provider login page.
* After the user has authenticated in the OpenID Provider, an instance of `DefaultJmixOidcUser` will be created and set to the security context. No user attributes will be mapped. The user won't be stored in the database.
* Collection of user role codes will be taken from the "roles" claim of the ID Token, and then resource and row-level roles with given codes will be set to the user authentication object.

The `DefaultJmixOidcUser` class implements the `JmixOidcUser` interface. The user class must always implement this interface because Jmix applications require the `UserDetails` interface, and Spring Security works with the `OidcUser` interface. `JmixOidcUser` just extends both these interfaces.

[[mapping-user-attributes-and-roles]]
== Mapping User Attributes and Roles

If you need to work with an in-memory user but want to fill some user attributes, create a class that extends `DefaultJmixOidcUser`. In the example below, it has the `position` attribute:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/oidc-ex1/src/main/java/examples/oidcex1/entity/MyUser.java[tags=my-user]
----

Then you need to register an instance of `OidcUserMapper` as a Spring bean. You can extend the `BaseOidcUserMapper` and override its methods:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/java/examples/oidcex1/mapper/MyOidcUserMapper.java[tags=code]
----

Note that in the example above, the mapping of claims from OIDC user to Jmix granted authorities is delegated to the `ClaimsRolesMapper` interface. The default implementation of `ClaimsRolesMapper` is `DefaultClaimsRolesMapper`, which gets the claim with the "roles" name from the ID Token. This claim must contain a collection of role names. Then for each role from the claim value resource role and row-level role are searched in Jmix. If found, corresponding granted authorities will be added to the user. The roles claim name can be configured using the following application property:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
jmix.oidc.default-claims-roles-mapper.roles-claim-name=myRoles
----

If necessary, you can create your own mapper of claims to roles. The easiest way to do it is to extend the `BaseClaimsRolesMapper` and override its `getResourceRolesCodes()` and/or `getRowLevelRolesCodes()` methods. The example below demonstrates how to assign roles based on the "position" claim:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/java/examples/oidcex1/mapper/MyClaimsRoleMapper.java[tags=code]
----

[[working-with-user-jpa-entity]]
== Working with User JPA Entity

In order to work with Jmix OIDC add-on, the `User` JPA entity must implement the `io.jmix.oidc.user.JmixOidcUser` interface that in turns implements `org.springframework.security.oauth2.core.oidc.user.OidcUser` required by Spring Security.

The simplest way to make the `User` entity compatible with the OIDC add-on is to make this class a subclass of the `io.jmix.oidc.user.JmixOidcUserEntity` abstract class:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/java/examples/oidcex1/entity/User.java[tags=jpa-user-entity-start;jpa-user-entity-end]
----

To store users in the database after they are logged in using OpenID Provider, you'll need to register a user mapper that extends the `SynchronizingOidcUserMapper` class. This superclass contains the behavior that stores/updates the user in the database. Optionally you may also store information about role assignments in the database.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/java/examples/oidcex1/mapper/MySynchronizingOidcUserMapper.java[tags=code;!profile]
----

[[protecting-api]]
== Protecting API

Jmix application may work as a resource server. To specify which authorization server to use, define the following application property:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
spring.security.oauth2.resourceserver.jwt.issuer-uri=http://localhost:8180/realms/<realm>
----

The value of the property is the URL contained in the `iss` claim for JWT tokens that the authorization server will issue. See {spring-security-doc}/servlet/oauth2/resource-server/jwt.html#_specifying_the_authorization_server[Spring Security documentation^] for details.

By default, the "sub" claim value is used as a username of Jmix user that is set to security context. If you want to change this, use the following application property:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
jmix.oidc.jwt-authentication-converter.username-claim=preferred_username
----

In most cases the property value should be aligned with the value of the `spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.keycloak.user-name-attribute` property.

Access tokens obtained from OpenID Provider may be used for accessing protected endpoints provided by the REST API add-on.

For local Keycloak instance access tokens may be obtained in the following way:

[source,shell,indent=0]
----
curl -X POST http://localhost:8180/realms/sample1/protocol/openid-connect/token \
--user <client-id>:<client-secret> \
-H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
-d "grant_type=password&scope=openid&username=<username>&password=<password>"
----

For example:

[source,shell,indent=0]
----
curl -X POST http://localhost:8180/realms/sample1/protocol/openid-connect/token \
--user jmix-app:UONXQZf6unxVuWsxXvhMAPv5IxFz5P7D \
-H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
-d "grant_type=password&&scope=openid&username=johndoe&password=mypass"
----

Now let's see how to protect custom MVC controllers, for example the following one:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/java/examples/oidcex1/controller/GreetingController.java[tags=code]
----

Imagine that you need all URLs starting with `/authenticated/` to be protected and all URLs starting with `/anonymous/` to be available for anonymous access. To achieve this, define an `AuthorizedUrlsProvider` bean in your main application class or in any Spring configuration class:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/java/examples/oidcex1/config/ProtectedApiConfiguration.java[tags=my-authorized-urls-provider]
----

[[oidc-properties]]
== OIDC Properties

[[jmix.oidc.use-default-configuration]]
=== jmix.oidc.use-default-configuration

Defines whether to apply the default auto-configuration. True by default. Set this property to false in case you want to have access to add-on beans and interfaces but don't want to use predefined Spring security configuration for protecting endpoints. In this case, you'll have to write your own security configuration.

[source,properties]
----
jmix.oidc.use-default-configuration = false
----

[[jmix.oidc.default-claims-roles-mapper.roles-claim-name]]
=== jmix.oidc.default-claims-roles-mapper.roles-claim-name

Defines a name of the claim in the ID Token that contains a collection of role names. This property is used by `DefaultClaimsRolesMapper`. The default value is `roles`.

[source,properties]
----
jmix.oidc.default-claims-roles-mapper.roles-claim-name = myRoles
----

[[configuring-local-keycloak-instance]]
== Configuring Local Keycloak Instance

One of the most popular OpenID Providers is https://www.keycloak.org/[Keycloak^]. To get familiar with the Jmix OIDC add-on you can run Keycloak locally using Docker.

[[starting-keycloak-using-docker]]
=== Starting Keycloak Using Docker

Use the following comment to start Keycloak instance using Docker on the port 8180:

[source,shell,indent=0]
----
docker run -p 8180:8080 -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN=admin -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin --name keycloak quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:22.0 start-dev
----

See https://www.keycloak.org/getting-started/getting-started-docker[Keycloak documentation^] for details.

Keycloak URL: http://localhost:8180[^]

Admin credentials:
[source,text]
----
Username: admin
Password: admin
----

You can read about configuring the Keycloak instance in the https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/[Server Administration Guide^].

[[creating-a-realm]]
=== Creating a Realm

Login to Keycloak admin console.

Open the popup at the top of the left pane.

Click **Create Realm**.

image::keycloak/create_realm_1.png[align="center"]

Give a name to the new realm, e.g. "sample".

image::keycloak/create_realm_2.png[align="center"]

[[creating-client]]
=== Creating a Client

In order to connect a Jmix application to Keycloak, you need to create a new client **jmix-app** with the Client type **OpenID Connect**.

image::keycloak/create_client_1.png[align="center"]

Enable **Client authentication**.

image::keycloak/create_client_2.png[align="center"]

Enter **Valid redirect URIs**:

[source,text]
----
http://localhost:8080/*
----

and **Web origins**:

[source,text]
----
http://localhost:8080
----

image::keycloak/create_client_3.png[align="center"]

Open the just created client and go to the **Credentials** tab. It displays the **Client secret**, which you need in the Jmix project to set up a connection.

image::keycloak/client_credentials.png[align="center"]

Client parameters should be used in the `application.properties` file. See the <<client-configuration,Client Configuration>> section.

[[creating-role]]
=== Creating a Role

Next you should create a new realm role. By default, the role name should match the Jmix role code. Create the **system-full-access** role:

image::keycloak/create_role.png[align="center"]

[[creating-user]]
=== Creating a User

Create a user with **johndoe** username:

image::keycloak/create_user.png[align="center"]

After the user is saved, the **Credentials** tab will appear. There you can set the user password.

image::keycloak/create_user_credentials.png[align="center"]

On the **Role mappings** tab, assign the **system-full-access** role:

image::keycloak/assign_role.png[align="center"]

If you want to fill in user attributes (e.g. "position"), you can do that in **Attributes** tab in the user editor.

[[creating-roles-mapper]]
=== Creating a Roles Mapper

In order to return the realm roles information in the ID Token you need to define a mapper for the **jmix-app** client. Open the client editor and switch to the **Client scopes** tab:

image::keycloak/create_mapper_1.png[align="center"]

Open the editor of the **jmix-app-dedicated** scope. Add a predefined mapper for the "realm roles" there:

image::keycloak/create_mapper_2.png[align="center"]

Open the just created **realm roles** mapper. Set the `roles` value to the **Token Claim Name** attribute. By doing this we specify that the name of the token claim containing a list of roles is `roles`.

Select the **Add to userinfo** checkbox.

image::keycloak/create_mapper_3.png[align="center"]

Commit message:

Describe how to configure endpoints security for token-based authentication 849

content/modules/oidc/pages/index.adoc, after:

= OpenID Connect

The Jmix OpenID Connect add-on provides predefined Spring Security configurations and a set of services that allow you to easily implement the following features in your applications:

* User authentication using an external OpenID Provider (e.g., Keycloak).
* Mapping user attributes and roles from the OpenID Provider user to Jmix user.
* Persisting user entity and role assignments after the user is successfully authenticated at the OpenID Provider.

The add-on leverages Spring Security support for OAuth2 and OpenID Connect 1.0. You may read about it in {spring-security-doc}/servlet/oauth2/index.html[Spring Security documentation^].

The add-on applies `OidcAutoConfiguration` unless it is explicitly disabled by setting the `jmix.oidc.use-default-configuration=false` application property. The configuration enables OpenID Connect authentication for UI and REST API URLs.

[[installation]]
== Installation

For automatic installation through Jmix Marketplace, follow instructions in the xref:ROOT:add-ons.adoc#installation[Add-ons] section.

For manual installation, add the following dependency to your `build.gradle`:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::example$/oidc-ex1/build.gradle[tags=dependencies]
----

[[client-configuration]]
== Client Configuration

After including the add-on in your project and before starting the application, you should configure the "client", which is a Jmix application that requires end-user authentication from the OpenID Provider.

Use the standard Spring Security approach to configure the client. You can do it by adding the following properties to the `application.properties` file:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/resources/application-doc1.properties[tags=client-properties]
----

`keycloak` in the property key is the provider id. It may have any value, for example `okta`, so the property will be `spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.okta.client-id`.

Client ID and client secret values must be taken from the OpenID provider.

The `issuer-uri` property contains a path to the OpenID Provider https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig[Configuration Endpoint^].

By default, the "sub" claim will be used as a Jmix user username. If you want to change it, use the following application property:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/resources/application-doc1.properties[tags=user-name-attribute]
----

[[using-default-addon-configuration]]
== Using Default Add-on Configuration

After including the add-on in the project, configuring the client and <<configuring-local-keycloak-instance,setting up Keycloak>>, you may start the application. In this case, the default add-on configuration will do the following:

* Non-authenticated users will be redirected to OpenID Provider login page.
* After the user has authenticated in the OpenID Provider, an instance of `DefaultJmixOidcUser` will be created and set to the security context. No user attributes will be mapped. The user won't be stored in the database.
* Collection of user role codes will be taken from the "roles" claim of the ID Token, and then resource and row-level roles with given codes will be set to the user authentication object.

The `DefaultJmixOidcUser` class implements the `JmixOidcUser` interface. The user class must always implement this interface because Jmix applications require the `UserDetails` interface, and Spring Security works with the `OidcUser` interface. `JmixOidcUser` just extends both these interfaces.

[[mapping-user-attributes-and-roles]]
== Mapping User Attributes and Roles

If you need to work with an in-memory user but want to fill some user attributes, create a class that extends `DefaultJmixOidcUser`. In the example below, it has the `position` attribute:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/oidc-ex1/src/main/java/examples/oidcex1/entity/MyUser.java[tags=my-user]
----

Then you need to register an instance of `OidcUserMapper` as a Spring bean. You can extend the `BaseOidcUserMapper` and override its methods:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/java/examples/oidcex1/mapper/MyOidcUserMapper.java[tags=code]
----

Note that in the example above, the mapping of claims from OIDC user to Jmix granted authorities is delegated to the `ClaimsRolesMapper` interface. The default implementation of `ClaimsRolesMapper` is `DefaultClaimsRolesMapper`, which gets the claim with the "roles" name from the ID Token. This claim must contain a collection of role names. Then for each role from the claim value resource role and row-level role are searched in Jmix. If found, corresponding granted authorities will be added to the user. The roles claim name can be configured using the following application property:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
jmix.oidc.default-claims-roles-mapper.roles-claim-name=myRoles
----

If necessary, you can create your own mapper of claims to roles. The easiest way to do it is to extend the `BaseClaimsRolesMapper` and override its `getResourceRolesCodes()` and/or `getRowLevelRolesCodes()` methods. The example below demonstrates how to assign roles based on the "position" claim:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/java/examples/oidcex1/mapper/MyClaimsRoleMapper.java[tags=code]
----

[[working-with-user-jpa-entity]]
== Working with User JPA Entity

In order to work with Jmix OIDC add-on, the `User` JPA entity must implement the `io.jmix.oidc.user.JmixOidcUser` interface that in turns implements `org.springframework.security.oauth2.core.oidc.user.OidcUser` required by Spring Security.

The simplest way to make the `User` entity compatible with the OIDC add-on is to make this class a subclass of the `io.jmix.oidc.user.JmixOidcUserEntity` abstract class:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/java/examples/oidcex1/entity/User.java[tags=jpa-user-entity-start;jpa-user-entity-end]
----

To store users in the database after they are logged in using OpenID Provider, you'll need to register a user mapper that extends the `SynchronizingOidcUserMapper` class. This superclass contains the behavior that stores/updates the user in the database. Optionally you may also store information about role assignments in the database.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/java/examples/oidcex1/mapper/MySynchronizingOidcUserMapper.java[tags=code;!profile]
----

[[protecting-api]]
== Protecting API

Jmix application may work as a resource server. To specify which authorization server to use, define the following application property:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
spring.security.oauth2.resourceserver.jwt.issuer-uri=http://localhost:8180/realms/<realm>
----

The value of the property is the URL contained in the `iss` claim for JWT tokens that the authorization server will issue. See {spring-security-doc}/servlet/oauth2/resource-server/jwt.html#_specifying_the_authorization_server[Spring Security documentation^] for details.

By default, the "sub" claim value is used as a username of Jmix user that is set to security context. If you want to change this, use the following application property:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
jmix.oidc.jwt-authentication-converter.username-claim=preferred_username
----

In most cases the property value should be aligned with the value of the `spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.keycloak.user-name-attribute` property.

Access tokens obtained from OpenID Provider may be used for accessing protected endpoints provided by the REST API add-on.

For local Keycloak instance access tokens may be obtained in the following way:

[source,shell,indent=0]
----
curl -X POST http://localhost:8180/realms/sample1/protocol/openid-connect/token \
--user <client-id>:<client-secret> \
-H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
-d "grant_type=password&scope=openid&username=<username>&password=<password>"
----

For example:

[source,shell,indent=0]
----
curl -X POST http://localhost:8180/realms/sample1/protocol/openid-connect/token \
--user jmix-app:UONXQZf6unxVuWsxXvhMAPv5IxFz5P7D \
-H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
-d "grant_type=password&&scope=openid&username=johndoe&password=mypass"
----

Now let's see how to protect custom MVC controllers, for example the following one:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/java/examples/oidcex1/controller/GreetingController.java[tags=code]
----

Imagine that you need all URLs starting with `/authenticated/` to be protected and all URLs starting with `/anonymous/` to be available for anonymous access. There are xref:security:custom-endpoints.adoc#token-based-authentication[several ways] to achieve this. The simplest approach is to use application properties:

[source,properties]
----
include::example$oidc-ex1/src/main/resources/application-resserver.properties[tags=resource-server-endpoints-security]
----

[[oidc-properties]]
== OIDC Properties

[[jmix.oidc.use-default-configuration]]
=== jmix.oidc.use-default-configuration

Defines whether to apply the default auto-configuration. True by default. Set this property to false in case you want to have access to add-on beans and interfaces but don't want to use predefined Spring security configuration for protecting endpoints. In this case, you'll have to write your own security configuration.

[source,properties]
----
jmix.oidc.use-default-configuration = false
----

[[jmix.oidc.default-claims-roles-mapper.roles-claim-name]]
=== jmix.oidc.default-claims-roles-mapper.roles-claim-name

Defines a name of the claim in the ID Token that contains a collection of role names. This property is used by `DefaultClaimsRolesMapper`. The default value is `roles`.

[source,properties]
----
jmix.oidc.default-claims-roles-mapper.roles-claim-name = myRoles
----

[[configuring-local-keycloak-instance]]
== Configuring Local Keycloak Instance

One of the most popular OpenID Providers is https://www.keycloak.org/[Keycloak^]. To get familiar with the Jmix OIDC add-on you can run Keycloak locally using Docker.

[[starting-keycloak-using-docker]]
=== Starting Keycloak Using Docker

Use the following comment to start Keycloak instance using Docker on the port 8180:

[source,shell,indent=0]
----
docker run -p 8180:8080 -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN=admin -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin --name keycloak quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:22.0 start-dev
----

See https://www.keycloak.org/getting-started/getting-started-docker[Keycloak documentation^] for details.

Keycloak URL: http://localhost:8180[^]

Admin credentials:
[source,text]
----
Username: admin
Password: admin
----

You can read about configuring the Keycloak instance in the https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/[Server Administration Guide^].

[[creating-a-realm]]
=== Creating a Realm

Login to Keycloak admin console.

Open the popup at the top of the left pane.

Click **Create Realm**.

image::keycloak/create_realm_1.png[align="center"]

Give a name to the new realm, e.g. "sample".

image::keycloak/create_realm_2.png[align="center"]

[[creating-client]]
=== Creating a Client

In order to connect a Jmix application to Keycloak, you need to create a new client **jmix-app** with the Client type **OpenID Connect**.

image::keycloak/create_client_1.png[align="center"]

Enable **Client authentication**.

image::keycloak/create_client_2.png[align="center"]

Enter **Valid redirect URIs**:

[source,text]
----
http://localhost:8080/*
----

and **Web origins**:

[source,text]
----
http://localhost:8080
----

image::keycloak/create_client_3.png[align="center"]

Open the just created client and go to the **Credentials** tab. It displays the **Client secret**, which you need in the Jmix project to set up a connection.

image::keycloak/client_credentials.png[align="center"]

Client parameters should be used in the `application.properties` file. See the <<client-configuration,Client Configuration>> section.

[[creating-role]]
=== Creating a Role

Next you should create a new realm role. By default, the role name should match the Jmix role code. Create the **system-full-access** role:

image::keycloak/create_role.png[align="center"]

[[creating-user]]
=== Creating a User

Create a user with **johndoe** username:

image::keycloak/create_user.png[align="center"]

After the user is saved, the **Credentials** tab will appear. There you can set the user password.

image::keycloak/create_user_credentials.png[align="center"]

On the **Role mappings** tab, assign the **system-full-access** role:

image::keycloak/assign_role.png[align="center"]

If you want to fill in user attributes (e.g. "position"), you can do that in **Attributes** tab in the user editor.

[[creating-roles-mapper]]
=== Creating a Roles Mapper

In order to return the realm roles information in the ID Token you need to define a mapper for the **jmix-app** client. Open the client editor and switch to the **Client scopes** tab:

image::keycloak/create_mapper_1.png[align="center"]

Open the editor of the **jmix-app-dedicated** scope. Add a predefined mapper for the "realm roles" there:

image::keycloak/create_mapper_2.png[align="center"]

Open the just created **realm roles** mapper. Set the `roles` value to the **Token Claim Name** attribute. By doing this we specify that the name of the token claim containing a list of roles is `roles`.

Select the **Add to userinfo** checkbox.

image::keycloak/create_mapper_3.png[align="center"]
