content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/browser-frame.adoc, before:

= BrowserFrame
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/browser-frame.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=browserframe-classpath" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`BrowserFrame` allows you to embed content like web pages, PDF files, and images into UI screens using the HTML `<iframe>` element.

image::vcl/components/browser-frame.png[align="center"]

Component’s XML-name: `browserFrame`.

[[basics]]
== Basics

To display some content, you need to define `resource` element with one of the following nested elements:

* `classpath`
* `file`
* `relativePath`
* `theme`
* `url`

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/browserframe/browser-frame-screen.xml[tags=url-example]
----

See the detailed information about xref:vcl/components/image.adoc#resources[resources] in the description of the xref:vcl/components/image.adoc[] component.

[[attributes]]
== Attributes

[[allow]]
=== allow

This attribute allows you to specify https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/06/feature-policy[Feature Policy^]. The value of the attribute should be a space-separated list of the following possible values that allow current embedded content to:

1. `autoplay` - autoplay media requested through the interface.
2. `camera` - use video input devices.
3. `document-domain` - set `document.domain`.
4. `encrypted-media` - use the Encrypted Media Extensions API (EME).
5. `fullscreen` - use `Element.requestFullScreen()`.
6. `geolocation` - use Geolocation Interface.
7. `microphone` -  use audio input devices.
8. `midi` - use the Web MIDI API.
9. `payment` - use the Payment Request API.
10. `vr` - use the WebVR API.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/browserframe/browser-frame-screen.xml[tags=allow]
----

[[alternate-text]]
=== alternateText

This attribute sets an alternate text for the frame in case the resource is not set or unavailable.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/browserframe/browser-frame-screen.xml[tags=alternative-text]
----

[[referrerpolicy]]
=== referrerpolicy

This attribute allows you to specify which referrer to send when fetching the frame’s resource. The value of the attribute should be a space-separated list of the following possible values:

1. `no-referrer` - the referer header will not be sent.
2. `no-referrer-when-downgrade` - the referer header will not be sent to origins without TLS (HTTPS).
3. `origin` - the sent referrer will be limited to the origin of the referring page: its scheme, host, and port.
4. `origin-when-cross-origin` -  the referrer sent to other origins will be limited to the scheme, the host, and the port. Navigation on the same origin will still include the path.
5. `same-origin` - a referrer will be sent for the same origin, but cross-origin requests will contain no referrer information.
6. `strict-origin` - only sends the origin of the document as the referrer when the protocol security level stays the same (HTTPS->HTTPS) but doesn’t send it to a less secure destination (HTTPS->HTTP).
7. `strict-origin-when-cross-origin` - sends a full URL when performing a same-origin request, only sends the origin when the protocol security level stays the same (HTTPS->HTTPS) and sends no header to a less secure destination (HTTPS->HTTP).
8. `unsafe-url` - the referrer will include the origin and the path. This value is unsafe because it leaks origins and paths from TLS-protected resources to insecure origins.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/browserframe/browser-frame-screen.xml[tags=referrerpolicy]
----

[[sandbox]]
=== sandbox

This attribute allows you to apply additional restrictions to the embedded content. The attribute's value should be either empty to apply all restrictions or space-separated tokens to lift particular restrictions. The value of the attribute should be a space-separated list of the following possible values:

1. `allow-downloads-without-user-activation` - allows the resource to download files without a user gesture.
2. `allow-forms` - allows the resource to submit forms.
3. `allow-modals` - allows the resource to open modal windows.
4. `allow-orientation-lock` - allows the resource to lock the screen orientation.
5. `allow-pointer-lock` - allows the resource to use the Pointer Lock API.
6. `allow-popups` -  allows popups, such as:
* `window.open()`
* `target="_blank"`
* `showModalDialog()`
7. `allow-popups-to-escape-sandbox` -  allows the sandboxed content to open new windows without those windows inheriting the sandboxing.
8. `allow-presentation` - allows the resource to start a presentation session.
9. `allow-same-origin` - allows the embedded content to be treated as being from the same origin.
10. `allow-scripts` - allows the resource to run scripts.
11. `allow-storage-access-by-user-activation` -  allows the resource to request access to the parent’s storage capabilities with the Storage Access API.
12. `allow-top-navigation` - allows the resource to navigate the top-level browsing context (the one named `_top`).
13. `allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation` - allows the resource to navigate through the top-level view context, but only if a user gesture initiates it.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/browserframe/browser-frame-screen.xml[tags=sandbox]
----

[[srcdoc]]
=== srcdoc

This attribute allows you to specify the HTML code that will be displayed by the component. To do this, you need to escape the HTML code, for example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/browserframe/browser-frame-screen.xml[tags=srcdoc]
----

image::vcl/components/browser-frame-src.png[align="center"]

[[srcdoc-file]]
=== srcdocFile

This attribute specifies the path to the file containing the HTML code. File content is obtained by using the `classPath` resource.

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[context-help-icon-click-event]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickEvent

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickEvent].

[[source-change-event]]
=== SourceChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/components/image.adoc#source-change-event[SourceChangeEvent].

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
<<allow, allow>> -
<<alternate-text, alternateText>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<referrerpolicy, referrerpolicy>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
<<sandbox, sandbox>> -
<<srcdoc, srcdoc>> -
<<srcdoc-file, srcdocFile>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/browser-frame.adoc, after:

= BrowserFrame
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/browser-frame.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=browserframe-classpath" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`BrowserFrame` allows you to embed content like web pages, PDF files, and images into UI screens using the HTML `<iframe>` element.

image::vcl/components/browser-frame.png[align="center"]

Component’s XML-name: `browserFrame`.

[[basics]]
== Basics

To display some content, you need to define the `resource` element with one of the following nested elements:

* `classpath`
* `file`
* `relativePath`
* `theme`
* `url`

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/browserframe/browser-frame-screen.xml[tags=url-example]
----

[TIP]
====
To define `resource` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Resource* button in the *Component Inspector* panel. Select the appropriate resource.
====

See the detailed information about xref:vcl/components/image.adoc#resources[resources] in the description of the xref:vcl/components/image.adoc[] component.

[[attributes]]
== Attributes

[[allow]]
=== allow

This attribute allows you to specify https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/06/feature-policy[Feature Policy^]. The value of the attribute should be a space-separated list of the following possible values that allow current embedded content to:

1. `autoplay` - autoplay media requested through the interface.
2. `camera` - use video input devices.
3. `document-domain` - set `document.domain`.
4. `encrypted-media` - use the Encrypted Media Extensions API (EME).
5. `fullscreen` - use `Element.requestFullScreen()`.
6. `geolocation` - use Geolocation Interface.
7. `microphone` -  use audio input devices.
8. `midi` - use the Web MIDI API.
9. `payment` - use the Payment Request API.
10. `vr` - use the WebVR API.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/browserframe/browser-frame-screen.xml[tags=allow]
----

[[alternate-text]]
=== alternateText

This attribute sets an alternate text for the frame in case the resource is not set or unavailable.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/browserframe/browser-frame-screen.xml[tags=alternative-text]
----

[[referrerpolicy]]
=== referrerpolicy

This attribute allows you to specify which referrer to send when fetching the frame’s resource. The value of the attribute should be a space-separated list of the following possible values:

1. `no-referrer` - the referer header will not be sent.
2. `no-referrer-when-downgrade` - the referer header will not be sent to origins without TLS (HTTPS).
3. `origin` - the sent referrer will be limited to the origin of the referring page: its scheme, host, and port.
4. `origin-when-cross-origin` -  the referrer sent to other origins will be limited to the scheme, the host, and the port. Navigation on the same origin will still include the path.
5. `same-origin` - a referrer will be sent for the same origin, but cross-origin requests will contain no referrer information.
6. `strict-origin` - only sends the origin of the document as the referrer when the protocol security level stays the same (HTTPS->HTTPS) but doesn’t send it to a less secure destination (HTTPS->HTTP).
7. `strict-origin-when-cross-origin` - sends a full URL when performing a same-origin request, only sends the origin when the protocol security level stays the same (HTTPS->HTTPS) and sends no header to a less secure destination (HTTPS->HTTP).
8. `unsafe-url` - the referrer will include the origin and the path. This value is unsafe because it leaks origins and paths from TLS-protected resources to insecure origins.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/browserframe/browser-frame-screen.xml[tags=referrerpolicy]
----

[[sandbox]]
=== sandbox

This attribute allows you to apply additional restrictions to the embedded content. The attribute's value should be either empty to apply all restrictions or space-separated tokens to lift particular restrictions. The value of the attribute should be a space-separated list of the following possible values:

1. `allow-downloads-without-user-activation` - allows the resource to download files without a user gesture.
2. `allow-forms` - allows the resource to submit forms.
3. `allow-modals` - allows the resource to open modal windows.
4. `allow-orientation-lock` - allows the resource to lock the screen orientation.
5. `allow-pointer-lock` - allows the resource to use the Pointer Lock API.
6. `allow-popups` -  allows popups, such as:
* `window.open()`
* `target="_blank"`
* `showModalDialog()`
7. `allow-popups-to-escape-sandbox` -  allows the sandboxed content to open new windows without those windows inheriting the sandboxing.
8. `allow-presentation` - allows the resource to start a presentation session.
9. `allow-same-origin` - allows the embedded content to be treated as being from the same origin.
10. `allow-scripts` - allows the resource to run scripts.
11. `allow-storage-access-by-user-activation` -  allows the resource to request access to the parent’s storage capabilities with the Storage Access API.
12. `allow-top-navigation` - allows the resource to navigate the top-level browsing context (the one named `_top`).
13. `allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation` - allows the resource to navigate through the top-level view context, but only if a user gesture initiates it.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/browserframe/browser-frame-screen.xml[tags=sandbox]
----

[[srcdoc]]
=== srcdoc

This attribute allows you to specify the HTML code that will be displayed by the component. To do this, you need to escape the HTML code, for example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/browserframe/browser-frame-screen.xml[tags=srcdoc]
----

image::vcl/components/browser-frame-src.png[align="center"]

[[srcdoc-file]]
=== srcdocFile

This attribute specifies the path to the file containing the HTML code. File content is obtained by using the `classPath` resource.

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[context-help-icon-click-event]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickEvent

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickEvent].

[[source-change-event]]
=== SourceChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/components/image.adoc#source-change-event[SourceChangeEvent].

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
<<allow, allow>> -
<<alternate-text, alternateText>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<referrerpolicy, referrerpolicy>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
<<sandbox, sandbox>> -
<<srcdoc, srcdoc>> -
<<srcdoc-file, srcdocFile>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]
