content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/calendar.adoc, before:

= Calendar
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/calendar.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=calendar-month" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

Calendar component is designed to organize and display calendar events.

image::vcl/components/calendar-week.png[align="center"]

Component's XML-name: `calendar`.

[[view-mode]]
== View Mode

[[start-end-attributes]]
Calendar has 3 view modes that are selected automatically based on the date range of `calendar`, defined by the `startDate` and `endDate` attributes:

1. Monthly view - displayed when the date range is over 7 days long.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/calendar-screen.xml[tags=monthly-view]
----
+
image::vcl/components/calendar-monthly-view.png[align="center"]

2. Weekly view - displayed when the date range is between 1 and 7 days long.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/calendar-screen.xml[tags=weekly-view]
----
+
image::vcl/components/calendar-weekly-view.png[align="center"]

3. Single-day view - displayed when the date range is within one day.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/calendar-screen.xml[tags=single-day-view]
----
+
image::vcl/components/calendar-single-day-view.png[align="center"]

[[navigation-buttons-visible]]
`Calendar` with weekly or single-day view supports navigation buttons that allow the user to move forward or backward. Buttons are hidden by default. To show them, set the `navigationButtonsVisible` attribute to `true`.

[[customization]]
== Customization

By default, `calendar` displays all 7 days of the week and 24 hours in each day. To change this behavior, there are the following attributes:

[[first-and-last-visible-day]]
* `firstVisibleDayOfWeek` and `lastVisibleDayOfWeek` - take values from `1` to `7`, where `1` is Sunday and `7` is Saturday.

[[first-and-last-visible-hour]]
* `firstVisibleHourOfDay` and `lastVisibleHourOfDay` - take values from `1` to `23`, where `1` is 01:00 am and `23` is 23:00 pm.

For example, let's customize `calendar`:

1. To display only the first half of the day when calendar is opened in single-day view.
2. To display only Tuesday and Wednesday in each week when calendar is opened in monthly view.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/calendar-screen.xml[tags=customized-calendar]
----

image::vcl/components/calendar-customized.gif[align="center"]

[[weekly-caption-format]]
You can also use `weeklyCaptionFormat` to change the caption of weekdays. The rules of the `https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/text/SimpleDateFormat.html[SimpleDateFormat^]` class define the format of the `weeklyCaptionFormat` value.

[[time-format]]
To change the time format, use the `timeFormat` attribute, with the following possible values:

* `24H`
* `12H` - the default value.

To change the names of days and months, use the `setDayNames()` and `setMonthNames()` methods, passing a map with the new values to them:

[source, java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/CalendarScreen.java[tags=customized-calendar;init-start;customized-calendar-1;init-end]
----

image::vcl/components/calendar-customized-captions.png[align="center"]

== Calendar Events

[[creating-events-programmatically]]
=== Creating Events Programmatically

1. To display events, you can add the `SimpleCalendarEvent` objects to `calendar` using the `addEvent()` method of the `CalendarEventProvider` interface:
+
[source, java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/CalendarScreen.java[tags=calendar;init-start;direct-adding;init-end]
----

2. You can also add the list of the `SimpleCalendarEvent` objects to `calendar` using the `setEventProvider()` method, which accepts the `ListCalendarEventProvider` object as a parameter.

3. To remove events, you can use `removeEvent()` or `removeAllEvents()` methods of the `CalendarEventProvider` interface.

[[data-aware-events]]
=== Data-aware Events

`CalendarEventProvider` interface has `ContainerCalendarEventProvider` implementation, which allows you to fill the calendar with events from your data model entities.

[[property-attributes]]
To be used for the `ContainerCalendarEventProvider`, an entity should have at least fields with one of the xref:vcl/components/date-field.adoc#datatype[datatypes] for the `startDateProperty`, `endDateProperty` attributes, and field with `String` type for `captionProperty` attribute:

[source, java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/entity/CustomCalendarEvent.java[tags=custom-event]
----

Additionally, you can define fields with `String` type for `descriptionProperty` and `stylenameProperty` attributes and field with `Boolean` type for `isAllDayProperty` attribute.

Usage example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/calendar-screen.xml[tags=data;layout-start;data-aware-event;layout-end]
----

image::vcl/components/calendar-data-aware.png[align="center"]

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

include::../eventsandhandlers/ContextHelpIconClickEvent.adoc[]

[[calendar-date-click-event]]
=== CalendarDateClickEvent

This event fires when the user clicks on a day number of the month.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addDateClickListener()` component method.

[[calendar-event-click-event]]
=== CalendarEventClickEvent

This event fires when the user clicks on the event.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addEventClickListener()` component method.

[[calendar-event-resize-event]]
=== CalendarEventResizeEvent

This event fires when the user resizes the event.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addEventResizeListener()` component method.

[[celendar-event-mode-event]]
=== CalendarEventMoveEvent

This event fires when the user moves the event.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addEventMoveListener()` component method.

[[calendar-week-click-event]]
=== CalendarWeekClickEvent

This event fires when the user clicks on a week number.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addWeekClickListener()` component method.

[[calendar-forward-click-event]]
=== CalendarForwardClickEvent

This event fires when the user clicks on a forward navigation button.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addForwardClickListener()` component method.

[[calendar-backward-click-event]]
=== CalendarBackwardClickEvent

This event fires when the user clicks on a backward navigation button.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addBackwardClickListener()` component method.

[[calendar-range-select-event]]
=== CalendarRangeSelectEvent

This event fires when the user clicks on an empty space and without releasing the key pulls to another place.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addRangeSelectListener()` component method.

[[calendar-day-click-event]]
=== CalendarDayClickEvent

This event fires when the user clicks on an empty space in the day.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addDayClickListener()` component method.

[[styling]]
== Styling

You can style calendar events with CSS. To configure a style, create a xref:themes/custom_theme.adoc[custom theme], and define the style name with needed parameters in the SCSS file. For example:

[source,scss,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/themes/helium-extended/helium-extended.scss[tags=calendar-event-red]
----

Now you can set created style programmatically in the screen controller:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/CalendarScreen.java[tags=style-red]
----

or with the help of the `stylenameProperty` attribute, by specifying as a value the entity field that contains the name of the created style.

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
<<property-attributes, captionProperty>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] -
xref:vcl/components/date-field.adoc#datatype[datatype] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
<<property-attributes, descriptionProperty>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
<<start-end-attributes, endDate>> -
<<property-attributes, endDateProperty>> -
<<first-and-last-visible-day, firstVisibleDayOfWeek>> -
<<first-and-last-visible-hour, firstVisibleHourOfDay>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<property-attributes, isAllDayProperty>>
<<first-and-last-visible-day, lastVisibleDayOfWeek>> -
<<first-and-last-visible-hour, lastVisibleHourOfDay>> -
<<navigation-buttons-visible, navigationButtonsVisible>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
<<start-end-attributes, startDate>> -
<<property-attributes, startDateProperty>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
<<property-attributes, stylenameProperty>> -
<<time-format, timeFormat>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
<<weekly-caption-format, weeklyCaptionFormat>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/calendar.adoc, after:

= Calendar
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/calendar.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=calendar-month" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

Calendar component is designed to organize and display calendar events.

image::vcl/components/calendar-week.png[align="center"]

Component's XML-name: `calendar`.

[[view-mode]]
== View Mode

[[start-end-attributes]]
Calendar has 3 view modes that are selected automatically based on the date range of `calendar`, defined by the `startDate` and `endDate` attributes:

1. Monthly view - displayed when the date range is over 7 days long.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/calendar-screen.xml[tags=monthly-view]
----
+
image::vcl/components/calendar-monthly-view.png[align="center"]

2. Weekly view - displayed when the date range is between 1 and 7 days long.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/calendar-screen.xml[tags=weekly-view]
----
+
image::vcl/components/calendar-weekly-view.png[align="center"]

3. Single-day view - displayed when the date range is within one day.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/calendar-screen.xml[tags=single-day-view]
----
+
image::vcl/components/calendar-single-day-view.png[align="center"]

[[navigation-buttons-visible]]
`Calendar` with weekly or single-day view supports navigation buttons that allow the user to move forward or backward. Buttons are hidden by default. To show them, set the `navigationButtonsVisible` attribute to `true`.

[[customization]]
== Customization

By default, `calendar` displays all 7 days of the week and 24 hours in each day. To change this behavior, there are the following attributes:

[[first-and-last-visible-day]]
* `firstVisibleDayOfWeek` and `lastVisibleDayOfWeek` - take values from `1` to `7`, where `1` is Sunday and `7` is Saturday.

[[first-and-last-visible-hour]]
* `firstVisibleHourOfDay` and `lastVisibleHourOfDay` - take values from `1` to `23`, where `1` is 01:00 am and `23` is 23:00 pm.

For example, let's customize `calendar`:

1. To display only the first half of the day when calendar is opened in single-day view.
2. To display only Tuesday and Wednesday in each week when calendar is opened in monthly view.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/calendar-screen.xml[tags=customized-calendar]
----

image::vcl/components/calendar-customized.gif[align="center"]

[[weekly-caption-format]]
You can also use `weeklyCaptionFormat` to change the caption of weekdays. The rules of the `https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/text/SimpleDateFormat.html[SimpleDateFormat^]` class define the format of the `weeklyCaptionFormat` value.

[[time-format]]
To change the time format, use the `timeFormat` attribute, with the following possible values:

* `24H`
* `12H` - the default value.

[[day-month-names]]
To change the names of days and months, use the `dayNames` and `monthNames` nested elements, for example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/calendar-screen.xml[tags=customized-calendar-day-names]
----

image::vcl/components/calendar-customized-captions.png[align="center"]

The `dayNames` or `monthNames` element does not extend but overrides a set of standard names. You should define the values of all days of week or month names explicitly.

[TIP]
====
To define `dayNames` or `monthNames` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add] button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

== Calendar Events

[[creating-events-programmatically]]
=== Creating Events Programmatically

1. To display events, you can add the `SimpleCalendarEvent` objects to `calendar` using the `addEvent()` method of the `CalendarEventProvider` interface:
+
[source, java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/CalendarScreen.java[tags=calendar;init-start;direct-adding;init-end]
----

2. You can also add the list of the `SimpleCalendarEvent` objects to `calendar` using the `setEventProvider()` method, which accepts the `ListCalendarEventProvider` object as a parameter.

3. To remove events, you can use `removeEvent()` or `removeAllEvents()` methods of the `CalendarEventProvider` interface.

[[data-aware-events]]
=== Data-aware Events

`CalendarEventProvider` interface has `ContainerCalendarEventProvider` implementation, which allows you to fill the calendar with events from your data model entities.

[[property-attributes]]
To be used for the `ContainerCalendarEventProvider`, an entity should have at least fields with one of the xref:vcl/components/date-field.adoc#datatype[datatypes] for the `startDateProperty`, `endDateProperty` attributes, and field with `String` type for `captionProperty` attribute:

[source, java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/entity/CustomCalendarEvent.java[tags=custom-event]
----

Additionally, you can define fields with `String` type for `descriptionProperty` and `stylenameProperty` attributes and field with `Boolean` type for `isAllDayProperty` attribute.

Usage example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/calendar-screen.xml[tags=data;layout-start;data-aware-event;layout-end]
----

image::vcl/components/calendar-data-aware.png[align="center"]

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

include::../eventsandhandlers/ContextHelpIconClickEvent.adoc[]

[[calendar-date-click-event]]
=== CalendarDateClickEvent

This event fires when the user clicks on a day number of the month.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addDateClickListener()` component method.

[[calendar-event-click-event]]
=== CalendarEventClickEvent

This event fires when the user clicks on the event.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addEventClickListener()` component method.

[[calendar-event-resize-event]]
=== CalendarEventResizeEvent

This event fires when the user resizes the event.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addEventResizeListener()` component method.

[[celendar-event-mode-event]]
=== CalendarEventMoveEvent

This event fires when the user moves the event.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addEventMoveListener()` component method.

[[calendar-week-click-event]]
=== CalendarWeekClickEvent

This event fires when the user clicks on a week number.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addWeekClickListener()` component method.

[[calendar-forward-click-event]]
=== CalendarForwardClickEvent

This event fires when the user clicks on a forward navigation button.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addForwardClickListener()` component method.

[[calendar-backward-click-event]]
=== CalendarBackwardClickEvent

This event fires when the user clicks on a backward navigation button.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addBackwardClickListener()` component method.

[[calendar-range-select-event]]
=== CalendarRangeSelectEvent

This event fires when the user clicks on an empty space and without releasing the key pulls to another place.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addRangeSelectListener()` component method.

[[calendar-day-click-event]]
=== CalendarDayClickEvent

This event fires when the user clicks on an empty space in the day.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addDayClickListener()` component method.

[[styling]]
== Styling

You can style calendar events with CSS. To configure a style, create a xref:themes/custom_theme.adoc[custom theme], and define the style name with needed parameters in the SCSS file. For example:

[source,scss,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/themes/helium-extended/helium-extended.scss[tags=calendar-event-red]
----

Now you can set created style programmatically in the screen controller:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/calendar/CalendarScreen.java[tags=style-red]
----

or with the help of the `stylenameProperty` attribute, by specifying as a value the entity field that contains the name of the created style.

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
<<property-attributes, captionProperty>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] -
xref:vcl/components/date-field.adoc#datatype[datatype] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
<<property-attributes, descriptionProperty>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
<<start-end-attributes, endDate>> -
<<property-attributes, endDateProperty>> -
<<first-and-last-visible-day, firstVisibleDayOfWeek>> -
<<first-and-last-visible-hour, firstVisibleHourOfDay>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<property-attributes, isAllDayProperty>> -
<<first-and-last-visible-day, lastVisibleDayOfWeek>> -
<<first-and-last-visible-hour, lastVisibleHourOfDay>> -
<<navigation-buttons-visible, navigationButtonsVisible>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
<<start-end-attributes, startDate>> -
<<property-attributes, startDateProperty>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
<<property-attributes, stylenameProperty>> -
<<time-format, timeFormat>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
<<weekly-caption-format, weeklyCaptionFormat>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]
