content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc, before:

= EntityComboBox
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=entitycombobox-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`EntityComboBox` allows users to select a single xref:data-model:entities.adoc[entity] instance from a drop-down list and perform actions when the user clicks buttons on the right.

In fact, `EntityComboBox` is a hybrid of xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc[ComboBox] and xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc[EntityPicker].

Component’s XML-name: `entityComboBox`.

== Basics

Use `EntityComboBox` if:

* The field value is a reference to an entity instance.
* Users need to select a single option.
* The list should be compact. It can be handy when the list of options is too long for xref:vcl/components/radio-button-group.adoc[RadioButtonGroup] or xref:vcl/components/single-select-list.adoc[SingleSelectList].
* Users need filtering functionality.
* Users need to perform some actions on the related entity instance.

Don't use `EntityComboBox` if the number of options is large (thousands or more). `EntityComboBox` loads the whole list of options to the user's browser and into the server memory. For selection from an arbitrary large lists of options, use xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc[EntityPicker] or xref:vcl/components/suggestion-field.adoc[SuggestionField].

`EntityComboBox` is a text field with a scrollable list of entity instances. It can have both custom and predefined actions:

image::vcl/components/entity-combo-box.gif[align="center"]

To create `EntityComboBox` connected to data, use the xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] and xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] attributes. The xref:vcl/xml.adoc#options-container[optionsContainer] attribute is used to create a list of options:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitycombobox/entitycombobox-screen.xml[tags=data;simple-entity-combo-box;layout-end]
----

<1> `InstanceContainer` for the `Address` entity.
<2> Inline fetch plan of the entity instance located in the container.
<3> `CollectionContainer` for the `Country` entity.
<4> `countryField` gets `countriesDc` as an options container so that the list of countries is displayed.

In the example above, the screen defines the `addressDc` data container for the `Address` entity having the `country` attribute. In the `entityComboBox` element, the `dataContainer` attribute contains a link to the `addressDc` data container, and the `property` attribute refers to the `country` entity attribute. The entity attribute should be a reference to an entity. In the following example, it is `Country`.

[[actions]]
== Actions

There are no default actions for `EntityComboBox`. You need to explicitly add all necessary actions, for example:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitycombobox/entitycombobox-screen.xml[tags=actions-entity-combo-box]
----

Detailed information on defining custom and predefined actions is available in the xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#actions[Actions] section for `EntityPicker`.

[[validators-element]]
== Validation

To check values entered into the `EntityComboBox` component, you can use a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] in a nested `validators` element.

[[predefined-validators]]
The following predefined validators are available for `EntityComboBox`:

* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#custom-validator[CustomValidator]
* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#not-null-validator[NotNullValidator]

In the example below, we will show a `NotNullValidator` usage for `countryValidField`:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitycombobox/entitycombobox-screen.xml[tags=validator]
----

[[handling-user-input]]
== Handling User Input

The user can enter a value that is not in the initial drop-down list and then select the item later without entering it again. To handle it, you should use `EnterPressHandler`.

[source, java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/entity/address/AddressEdit.java[tags=data;new-option-handler]
----

<1> Create a new instance and merge it into the context.
<2> Set the name of the newly created `country` entity.
<3> Add merged entity.

`EnterPressHandler` is invoked when the user enters a value and presses *Enter*. In this case, a new value is added to the list of options and becomes available for later use.

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[context-help-icon-click-handler]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickHandler

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickHandler].

[[enter-press-handler]]
=== EnterPressHandler

See the example of programmatic registration in the xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#handling-user-input[Handling User Input] section for `ComboBox`.

`EnterPressHandler` can be provided declaratively using the `@Install` annotation in the screen controller. See this example in the <<handling-user-input,Handling User Input>> section for `EntityComboBox`.

[[field-icon-provider]]
=== FieldIconProvider

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#field-icon-provider[FieldIconProvider].

////
TODO:
[[lookupSelectHandler]]
Test this handler for LookupComponents
////

[[field-value-change-event]]
=== FieldValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#field-value-change-event[FieldValueChangeEvent].

[[option-caption-provider]]
=== OptionCaptionProvider

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#option-caption-provider[OptionCaptionProvider].

[[option-icon-provider]]
=== OptionIconProvider

See xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#option-icon-provider[OptionIconProvider].

[[option-image-provider]]
=== OptionImageProvider

See xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#option-image-provider[OptionImageProvider].

[[option-style-provider]]
=== OptionStyleProvider

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#option-style-provider[OptionStyleProvider].

[[options-caption-filter]]
=== OptionsCaptionFilter

See xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#options-caption-filter[OptionsCaptionFilter].

[[validator]]
=== Validator

Adds a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] instance to the component. The `validator` must throw `ValidationException` if the value is not valid.

If you are not satisfied with the <<predefined-validators,predefined>> validators, add your own validator instance:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/combobox/ComboBoxScreen.java[tags=validator]
----

[[value-change-event]]
=== ValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#value-change-event[ValueChangeEvent].

[[xml]]
== EntityComboBox XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#buffered[buffered] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-property[captionProperty] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#filter-mode[filterMode] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#input-prompt[inputPrompt] -
xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#meta-class[metaClass] -
xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#null-name[nullName] -
xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#null-option-visible[nullOptionVisible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#options-container[optionsContainer] -
xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#paging[pageLength] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

== EntityComboBox XML Elements

<<actions,actions>> -
<<validators-element,validators>>

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc, after:

= EntityComboBox
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=entitycombobox-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`EntityComboBox` allows users to select a single xref:data-model:entities.adoc[entity] instance from a drop-down list and perform actions when the user clicks buttons on the right.

In fact, `EntityComboBox` is a hybrid of xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc[ComboBox] and xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc[EntityPicker].

Component’s XML-name: `entityComboBox`.

== Basics

Use `EntityComboBox` if:

* The field value is a reference to an entity instance.
* Users need to select a single option.
* The list should be compact. It can be handy when the list of options is too long for xref:vcl/components/radio-button-group.adoc[RadioButtonGroup] or xref:vcl/components/single-select-list.adoc[SingleSelectList].
* Users need filtering functionality.
* Users need to perform some actions on the related entity instance.

Don't use `EntityComboBox` if the number of options is large (thousands or more). `EntityComboBox` loads the whole list of options to the user's browser and into the server memory. For selection from an arbitrary large lists of options, use xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc[EntityPicker] or xref:vcl/components/suggestion-field.adoc[SuggestionField].

`EntityComboBox` is a text field with a scrollable list of entity instances. It can have both custom and predefined actions:

image::vcl/components/entity-combo-box.gif[align="center"]

To create `EntityComboBox` connected to data, use the xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] and xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] attributes. The xref:vcl/xml.adoc#options-container[optionsContainer] attribute is used to create a list of options:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitycombobox/entitycombobox-screen.xml[tags=data;simple-entity-combo-box;layout-end]
----

<1> `InstanceContainer` for the `Address` entity.
<2> Inline fetch plan of the entity instance located in the container.
<3> `CollectionContainer` for the `Country` entity.
<4> `countryField` gets `countriesDc` as an options container so that the list of countries is displayed.

In the example above, the screen defines the `addressDc` data container for the `Address` entity having the `country` attribute. In the `entityComboBox` element, the `dataContainer` attribute contains a link to the `addressDc` data container, and the `property` attribute refers to the `country` entity attribute. The entity attribute should be a reference to an entity. In the following example, it is `Country`.

[[actions]]
== Actions

There are no default actions for `EntityComboBox`. You need to explicitly add all necessary actions, for example:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitycombobox/entitycombobox-screen.xml[tags=actions-entity-combo-box]
----

[TIP]
====
To add `action` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#add-picker-action[Add->Action] button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

Detailed information on defining custom and predefined actions is available in the xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#actions[Actions] section for `EntityPicker`.

[[validators-element]]
== Validation

To check values entered into the `EntityComboBox` component, you can use a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] in a nested `validators` element.

[[predefined-validators]]
The following predefined validators are available for `EntityComboBox`:

* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#custom-validator[CustomValidator]
* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#not-null-validator[NotNullValidator]

In the example below, we will show a `NotNullValidator` usage for `countryValidField`:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitycombobox/entitycombobox-screen.xml[tags=validator]
----

[[handling-user-input]]
== Handling User Input

The user can enter a value that is not in the initial drop-down list and then select the item later without entering it again. To handle it, you should use `EnterPressHandler`.

[source, java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/entity/address/AddressEdit.java[tags=data;new-option-handler]
----

<1> Create a new instance and merge it into the context.
<2> Set the name of the newly created `country` entity.
<3> Add merged entity.

`EnterPressHandler` is invoked when the user enters a value and presses *Enter*. In this case, a new value is added to the list of options and becomes available for later use.

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[context-help-icon-click-handler]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickHandler

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickHandler].

[[enter-press-handler]]
=== EnterPressHandler

See the example of programmatic registration in the xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#handling-user-input[Handling User Input] section for `ComboBox`.

`EnterPressHandler` can be provided declaratively using the `@Install` annotation in the screen controller. See this example in the <<handling-user-input,Handling User Input>> section for `EntityComboBox`.

[[field-icon-provider]]
=== FieldIconProvider

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#field-icon-provider[FieldIconProvider].

////
TODO:
[[lookupSelectHandler]]
Test this handler for LookupComponents
////

[[field-value-change-event]]
=== FieldValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#field-value-change-event[FieldValueChangeEvent].

[[option-caption-provider]]
=== OptionCaptionProvider

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#option-caption-provider[OptionCaptionProvider].

[[option-icon-provider]]
=== OptionIconProvider

See xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#option-icon-provider[OptionIconProvider].

[[option-image-provider]]
=== OptionImageProvider

See xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#option-image-provider[OptionImageProvider].

[[option-style-provider]]
=== OptionStyleProvider

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#option-style-provider[OptionStyleProvider].

[[options-caption-filter]]
=== OptionsCaptionFilter

See xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#options-caption-filter[OptionsCaptionFilter].

[[validator]]
=== Validator

Adds a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] instance to the component. The `validator` must throw `ValidationException` if the value is not valid.

If you are not satisfied with the <<predefined-validators,predefined>> validators, add your own validator instance:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/combobox/ComboBoxScreen.java[tags=validator]
----

[[value-change-event]]
=== ValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#value-change-event[ValueChangeEvent].

[[xml]]
== EntityComboBox XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#buffered[buffered] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-property[captionProperty] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#filter-mode[filterMode] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#input-prompt[inputPrompt] -
xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#meta-class[metaClass] -
xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#null-name[nullName] -
xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#null-option-visible[nullOptionVisible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#options-container[optionsContainer] -
xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#paging[pageLength] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

== EntityComboBox XML Elements

<<actions,actions>> -
<<validators-element,validators>>
