content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc, before:

= EntityPicker
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=entitypicker-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`EntityPicker` displays an xref:data-model:entities.adoc[entity] instance in a text field and performs actions when the user clicks buttons on the right.

Component's XML-name: `entityPicker`.

== Basics

Use `EntityPicker` if:

* The field value is a reference to an entity instance.
* Users need to select or create an entity instance via the lookup screen or enter a specific value.
* Users need to open the edit screen for a related entity instance.

By default, Jmix Studio generates `EntityPicker` when creating an entity editor screen with a reference attribute.

image::vcl/components/entity-picker1.png[align="center"]

In the following example, the screen defines the `orderDc` data container for the `Order` entity having the `customer` attribute. In the `entityPicker` element, the `dataContainer` attribute contains a link to the `orderDc` data container, and the `property` attribute refers to the `customer` entity attribute. The entity attribute should be a reference to an entity. In the following example, it is `Customer`.

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/entityPicker-screen.xml[tags=data;entityPicker;vbox-layout-end]
----

[WARNING]
====
For ``EntityPicker``'s proper operation, you need either set the `metaClass` attribute or simultaneously set the `dataContainer` and `property` attributes.
====

[[actions]]
== Actions

You can define custom and predefined actions for `EntityPicker` displayed as buttons on the right.
You can do it either in the XML descriptor using the `actions` nested element or programmatically in the controller using the `addAction()` method.

[[predefined-actions]]
=== Predefined Actions

When Studio generates `EntityPicker` in the editor screen, it also generates two predefined standard actions: `entity_lookup` and `entity_clear`. There are also the `entity_open` and `entity_openComposition` actions.

Use the `type` and `id` attributes for declaring predefined action in XML.

If you create `EntityPicker` without actions, the XML loader will define only the `entity_lookup` and `entity_clear` actions. To add another predefined action, for example, the `entity_open`, you should specify the `actions` element as follows:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/entityPicker-screen.xml[tags=entityPicker3actions]
----

The `actions` element does not extend but overrides a set of standard actions. You should define the identifiers of all required actions explicitly.

[[custom-actions]]
=== Custom Actions

To define a custom action in XML, use the `actions` nested element. Specify the `id` and `icon` attributes for the `action`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/entityPicker-screen.xml[tags=customAction]
----

Then implement custom logic in the screen controller by subscribing to `Action.ActionPerformedEvent`:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/EntityPickerScreen.java[tags=customerEntityPicker;customAction]
----

<1> The `@Subscribe` annotation contains the `EntityPicker` `id` and the `id` of the action separated by a dot.

[TIP]
====
You can generate the `Action.ActionPerformedEvent` handler implementation stub using Studio.
====

[[add-actions-programmatically]]
=== Adding Actions Programmatically

Use the `addAction()` method to set actions programmatically.

* *Adding Standard Action*
+
For example, if the component is defined in the XML descriptor without `actions` nested element, it is sufficient to add missing standard actions:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/EntityPickerScreen.java[tags=addAction;on-init-start;addAction2;on-init-end]
----

* *Adding Custom Action*
+
An example of creating a custom action:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/EntityPickerScreen.java[tags=inject-customerEp;on-init-start;add-custom-action;on-init-end]
----

[[meta-class]]
== MetaClass

You can use `EntityPicker` without binding to the data container, that is, without setting `dataContainer` and `property`. In this case, the `metaClass` attribute should be used to specify an entity type for `EntityPicker`. For example:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/entityPicker-screen.xml[tags=metaclass]
----

You can get an instance of a selected entity by injecting the component into a controller and invoking its `getValue()` method.

[[icons]]
== Setting Icons

`EntityPicker` can have an icon on the left. Just install `fieldIconProvider` in the screen controller to implement your custom logic:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/EntityPickerScreen.java[tags=fieldIconProvider]
----

<1> Implementation of the `fieldIconProvider` delegate method.

image::vcl/components/entity-picker-icons.png[align="center"]

See xref:icons.adoc[] for more information on working with icons.

To register the field icon provider programmatically, use the `setFieldIconProvider()` component method.

[[fieldEditable]]
== Entering a Text Value

By default, a user cannot input the value manually. If you set the `fieldEditable` attribute to `true`, you enable manual input. It can be useful when creating an entity instance based on a value entered by the user.

Keep in mind that the entered value is not set to the data model. To handle user input, use the `FieldValueChangeEvent`.

Look at the example below. We have the `Address` entity with the association `country` attribute referencing the `Country` entity. The `Country` entity has only one `name` attribute. Let's define the `countryField` in the XML-descriptor with `fieldEditable="true"`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/entity/address/address-edit.xml[tags=fieldEditable]
----

Now the user can input the value manually. To handle this value, interpreted as String, subscribe to `FieldValueChangeEvent` in the controller:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/entity/address/AddressEdit.java[tags=field-value-change]
----

<1> The `@Subscribe` annotation contains the `EntityPicker` id.
<2> Get the entered value from the event object.
<3> Create a new instance of the `Country` entity.
<4> Set the created instance to the field.

To register the event handler programmatically, use the `addFieldValueChangeListener()` component method.

[[programmatically-creating]]
== Creating EntityPicker Programmatically

To create `EntityPicker` in the controller, use the `UiComponents` factory. Keep in mind that the programmatically created `EntityPicker` will get no default actions, and you need to add all necessary actions explicitly:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/EntityPickerScreen.java[tags=userPicker1;on-init-start;userPicker3]
----

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[context-help-icon-click-handler]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickHandler

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickHandler].

[[field-icon-provider]]
=== FieldIconProvider

See <<icons,Setting Icons>>.

[[field-value-change-event]]
=== FieldValueChangeEvent

`FieldValueChangeEvent` is fired when a user inputs value manually.

For more information, see <<fieldEditable,Entering a Text Value>>.

[[formatter]]
=== Formatter

Adds a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/formatter.adoc[formatter] instance to the component.

In the example below, we will show a `formatter` usage for the `customerFormat` entity picker:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/EntityPickerScreen.java[tags=formatter]
----

To add a formatter programmatically, use the `addFormatter()` component method.

[[validator]]
=== Validator

See xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#validator[Validator].

[[value-change-event]]
=== ValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#value-change-event[ValueChangeEvent].

[[xml]]
== EntityPicker XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#buffered[buffered] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
<<fieldEditable,fieldEditable>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#input-prompt[inputPrompt] -
<<meta-class,metaClass>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

== EntityPicker XML Elements

<<actions,actions>> -
xref:vcl/miscellaneous/formatter.adoc[formatter] -
xref:vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc#validators-element[validators]

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc, after:

= EntityPicker
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=entitypicker-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`EntityPicker` displays an xref:data-model:entities.adoc[entity] instance in a text field and performs actions when the user clicks buttons on the right.

Component's XML-name: `entityPicker`.

== Basics

Use `EntityPicker` if:

* The field value is a reference to an entity instance.
* Users need to select or create an entity instance via the lookup screen or enter a specific value.
* Users need to open the edit screen for a related entity instance.

By default, Jmix Studio generates `EntityPicker` when creating an entity editor screen with a reference attribute.

image::vcl/components/entity-picker1.png[align="center"]

In the following example, the screen defines the `orderDc` data container for the `Order` entity having the `customer` attribute. In the `entityPicker` element, the `dataContainer` attribute contains a link to the `orderDc` data container, and the `property` attribute refers to the `customer` entity attribute. The entity attribute should be a reference to an entity. In the following example, it is `Customer`.

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/entityPicker-screen.xml[tags=data;entityPicker;vbox-layout-end]
----

[WARNING]
====
For ``EntityPicker``'s proper operation, you need either set the `metaClass` attribute or simultaneously set the `dataContainer` and `property` attributes.
====

[[actions]]
== Actions

You can define custom and predefined actions for `EntityPicker` displayed as buttons on the right.
You can do it either in the XML descriptor using the `actions` nested element or programmatically in the controller using the `addAction()` method.

[TIP]
====
To add `action` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#add-picker-action[Add->Action] button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

[[predefined-actions]]
=== Predefined Actions

When Studio generates `EntityPicker` in the editor screen, it also generates two predefined standard actions: `entity_lookup` and `entity_clear`. There are also the `entity_open` and `entity_openComposition` actions.

Use the `type` and `id` attributes for declaring predefined action in XML.

If you create `EntityPicker` without actions, the XML loader will define only the `entity_lookup` and `entity_clear` actions. To add another predefined action, for example, the `entity_open`, you should specify the `actions` element as follows:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/entityPicker-screen.xml[tags=entityPicker3actions]
----

The `actions` element does not extend but overrides a set of standard actions. You should define the identifiers of all required actions explicitly.

[[custom-actions]]
=== Custom Actions

To define a custom action in XML, use the `actions` nested element. Specify the `id` and `icon` attributes for the `action`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/entityPicker-screen.xml[tags=customAction]
----

Then implement custom logic in the screen controller by subscribing to `Action.ActionPerformedEvent`:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/EntityPickerScreen.java[tags=customerEntityPicker;customAction]
----

<1> The `@Subscribe` annotation contains the `EntityPicker` `id` and the `id` of the action separated by a dot.

[TIP]
====
You can generate the `Action.ActionPerformedEvent` handler implementation stub using Studio.
====

[[add-actions-programmatically]]
=== Adding Actions Programmatically

Use the `addAction()` method to set actions programmatically.

* *Adding Standard Action*
+
For example, if the component is defined in the XML descriptor without `actions` nested element, it is sufficient to add missing standard actions:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/EntityPickerScreen.java[tags=addAction;on-init-start;addAction2;on-init-end]
----

* *Adding Custom Action*
+
An example of creating a custom action:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/EntityPickerScreen.java[tags=inject-customerEp;on-init-start;add-custom-action;on-init-end]
----

[[meta-class]]
== MetaClass

You can use `EntityPicker` without binding to the data container, that is, without setting `dataContainer` and `property`. In this case, the `metaClass` attribute should be used to specify an entity type for `EntityPicker`. For example:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/entityPicker-screen.xml[tags=metaclass]
----

You can get an instance of a selected entity by injecting the component into a controller and invoking its `getValue()` method.

[[icons]]
== Setting Icons

`EntityPicker` can have an icon on the left. Just install `fieldIconProvider` in the screen controller to implement your custom logic:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/EntityPickerScreen.java[tags=fieldIconProvider]
----

<1> Implementation of the `fieldIconProvider` delegate method.

image::vcl/components/entity-picker-icons.png[align="center"]

See xref:icons.adoc[] for more information on working with icons.

To register the field icon provider programmatically, use the `setFieldIconProvider()` component method.

[[fieldEditable]]
== Entering a Text Value

By default, a user cannot input the value manually. If you set the `fieldEditable` attribute to `true`, you enable manual input. It can be useful when creating an entity instance based on a value entered by the user.

Keep in mind that the entered value is not set to the data model. To handle user input, use the `FieldValueChangeEvent`.

Look at the example below. We have the `Address` entity with the association `country` attribute referencing the `Country` entity. The `Country` entity has only one `name` attribute. Let's define the `countryField` in the XML-descriptor with `fieldEditable="true"`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/entity/address/address-edit.xml[tags=fieldEditable]
----

Now the user can input the value manually. To handle this value, interpreted as String, subscribe to `FieldValueChangeEvent` in the controller:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/entity/address/AddressEdit.java[tags=field-value-change]
----

<1> The `@Subscribe` annotation contains the `EntityPicker` id.
<2> Get the entered value from the event object.
<3> Create a new instance of the `Country` entity.
<4> Set the created instance to the field.

To register the event handler programmatically, use the `addFieldValueChangeListener()` component method.

[[programmatically-creating]]
== Creating EntityPicker Programmatically

To create `EntityPicker` in the controller, use the `UiComponents` factory. Keep in mind that the programmatically created `EntityPicker` will get no default actions, and you need to add all necessary actions explicitly:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/EntityPickerScreen.java[tags=userPicker1;on-init-start;userPicker3]
----

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[context-help-icon-click-handler]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickHandler

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickHandler].

[[field-icon-provider]]
=== FieldIconProvider

See <<icons,Setting Icons>>.

[[field-value-change-event]]
=== FieldValueChangeEvent

`FieldValueChangeEvent` is fired when a user inputs value manually.

For more information, see <<fieldEditable,Entering a Text Value>>.

[[formatter]]
=== Formatter

Adds a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/formatter.adoc[formatter] instance to the component.

In the example below, we will show a `formatter` usage for the `customerFormat` entity picker:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitypicker/EntityPickerScreen.java[tags=formatter]
----

To add a formatter programmatically, use the `addFormatter()` component method.

[[validator]]
=== Validator

See xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#validator[Validator].

[[value-change-event]]
=== ValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#value-change-event[ValueChangeEvent].

[[xml]]
== EntityPicker XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#buffered[buffered] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
<<fieldEditable,fieldEditable>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#input-prompt[inputPrompt] -
<<meta-class,metaClass>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

== EntityPicker XML Elements

<<actions,actions>> -
xref:vcl/miscellaneous/formatter.adoc[formatter] -
xref:vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc#validators-element[validators]
