content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/entity-suggestion-field.adoc, before:

= EntitySuggestionField
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/entity-suggestion-field.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=entitysuggestionfield-dataaware" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`EntitySuggestionField` allows searching for entity instances according to a string entered by a user. It performs actions when a user clicks buttons on the right.

`EntitySuggestionField` is an input field with the additional functionality: a user enters a few characters, and if several matches have been found, a drop-down list will display all of them. `EntitySuggestionField` refreshes the list of options on each entered symbol.

The list of options is loaded in the background according to the logic defined by the application developer on the server-side.

In fact, `EntitySuggestionField` is a hybrid of xref:vcl/components/suggestion-field.adoc[SuggestionField] and xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc[EntityPicker].

Component’s XML-name: `entitySuggestionField`.

== Basics

Use `EntitySuggestionField` if:

* Users need to select a single xref:data-model:entities.adoc[entity] instance.
* The number of options in the list of suggested values is too large to use  xref:vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc[EntityComboBox].
* You want to provide high-performance search in the database without loading much data to the UI layer.

image::vcl/components/entity-suggestion-field.gif[align="center"]

To create `EntitySuggestionField` connected to data, use the xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] and xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] attributes and the <<query,query>> element:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/entitysuggestionfield-screen.xml[tags=data-start;instance;data-end;layout-start;basic;layout-end]
----
<1> `InstanceContainer` for the `Address` entity.
<2> Inline fetch plan of the entity instance located in the container.

The screen defines the `addressDc` data container for the `Address` entity having the `country` attribute in the example above. In the `entitySuggestionField` element, the `dataContainer` attribute contains a link to the `addressDc` data container, and the `property` attribute refers to the `country` entity attribute. The entity attribute should be a reference to an entity. In our example, it is `Country`.

[[options]]
== Defining Options

You can specify a list of options either in the XML descriptor using the `query` nested element or programmatically in the controller using the `SearchExecutor` interface.

[[query]]
=== query

`query` is an optional element that enables defining a query for selecting suggested values.

The `query` element has the following attributes:

[[entityClass]]
* `entityClass` (required) - a full qualified name of an entity class.

[[fetch-plan]]
* `fetchPlan` - an optional attribute that specifies the fetch plan to be used for loading the queried entity.

[[escape-value-for-like]]
* `escapeValueForLike` - enables searching for the values that contain special symbols: `%`, `\`, etc. The default value is `false`.

[[search-string-format]]
* `searchStringFormat` - a Groovy string; thus, you can use any valid Groovy-string expressions.

[[search-executor]]
=== SearchExecutor

If `query` is not defined, you should programmatically set the list of options using `SearchExecutor`.

`SearchExecutor` is a functional interface that contains a single method: `List<E> search(String searchString, Map<String, Object> searchParams)`.

Use the `searchString` parameter to filter candidates using the string entered by the user.

First, declare a component in the XML descriptor:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/entitysuggestionfield-screen.xml[tags=entity-field]
----

Then set `SearchExecutor` to the component:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/EntitySuggestionFieldScreen.java[tags=autowired-data-manager;search-executor]
----

[TIP]
====
You can generate the `SearchExecutor` implementation stub using Studio.
====

[WARNING]
====
The `search()` method is executed in a background thread, so it cannot access visual components or data containers used by visual components. Call xref:data-access:data-manager.adoc[DataManager] or a middleware service directly, or process and return data loaded to the screen beforehand.
====

You can use the `escapeForLike()` method to search for the values that contain special symbols:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/suggestionfield/SuggestionFieldScreen.java[tags=autowired-data-manager;escape-for-like]
----

[[meta-class]]
== metaClass

You can use `EntitySuggestionField` without binding to the data container, that is, without setting `dataContainer` and `property`. In this case, use the `metaClass` attribute to specify an entity type for `EntitySuggestionField`. For example:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/entitysuggestionfield-screen.xml[tags=meta-class]
----

The search logic is defined using <<search-executor,SearchExecutor>>:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/EntitySuggestionFieldScreen.java[tags=autowired-data-manager;search-executor-metaclass]
----

[[actions]]
== Actions

You can define custom and predefined actions for `EntitySuggestionField` displayed as buttons on the right.
You can do it either in the XML descriptor using the `actions` nested element or programmatically in the controller using the `addAction()` method.

[[predefined-actions]]
=== Predefined Actions

If you create `EntitySuggestionField` without actions, the XML loader will define only the `entity_lookup` and `entity_open` actions. There are also the `entity_clear` and `entity_openComposition` actions.

To add other predefined action, for example, the `entity_clear`, you should specify the `actions` element as follows:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/entitysuggestionfield-screen.xml[tags=field-with-actions]
----

The `actions` element does not extend but overrides a set of standard actions. You should define the identifiers of all required actions explicitly.

Use `addAction()` to set actions programmatically. If the component is defined in the XML descriptor without `actions` nested element, it is sufficient to add missing actions:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/EntitySuggestionFieldScreen.java[tags=add-action;init-start;add-action-2;init-end]
----

[[custom-actions]]
=== Custom Actions

Custom actions for `EntitySuggestionField` are similar to xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#custom-actions[custom actions] for `EntityPicker`.

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[arrow-down-handler]]
=== ArrowDownHandler

`ArrowDownEvent` is fired when a user presses *Arrow Down* key when the popup with suggestions is hidden.

You can set up your own action handler and use `EntitySuggestionField.showSuggestions()` method, which accepts the list of entities to show suggestions:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/EntitySuggestionFieldScreen.java[tags=arrow-down]
----

[[context-help-icon-click-handler]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickHandler

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickHandler].

[[enter-press-handler]]
=== EnterPressHandler

See the example of programmatic registration in the xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#handling-user-input[Handling User Input] section for `ComboBox`.

`EnterPressHandler` can be provided declaratively using the `@Install` annotation in the screen controller. See this example in the xref:vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc#handling-user-input[Handling User Input] section for `EntityComboBox`.

[[field-icon-provider]]
=== FieldIconProvider

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#field-icon-provider[FieldIconProvider].

[[field-value-change-event]]
=== FieldValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#field-value-change-event[FieldValueChangeEvent].

[[formatter]]
=== Formatter

Adds a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/formatter.adoc[formatter] instance to the component.

In the example below, we will show a `formatter` usage for the `cityFieldFormat` entity suggestion field:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/EntitySuggestionFieldScreen.java[tags=formatter]
----

To add a formatter programmatically, use the `addFormatter()` component method.

[[option-caption-provider]]
=== OptionCaptionProvider

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#option-caption-provider[OptionCaptionProvider].

[[search-executor-interface]]
=== SearchExecutor

See <<search-executor, SearchExecutor>>.

[[validator]]
=== Validator

See xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#validator[Validator].

[[value-change-event]]
=== ValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#value-change-event[ValueChangeEvent].

[[xml]]
== EntitySuggestionField XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/components/suggestion-field.adoc#async-search-delay-ms[asyncSearchDelayMs] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-property[captionProperty] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#input-prompt[inputPrompt] -
<<meta-class,metaClass>> -
xref:vcl/components/suggestion-field.adoc#min-search-string-length[minSearchStringLength] -
xref:vcl/components/suggestion-field.adoc#popup-width[popupWidth] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/components/suggestion-field.adoc#suggestions-limit[suggestionsLimit] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

== EntitySuggestionField XML Elements

<<actions,actions>> -
xref:vcl/miscellaneous/formatter.adoc[formatter] -
<<query,query>> -
xref:vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc#validators-element[validators]

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/entity-suggestion-field.adoc, after:

= EntitySuggestionField
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/entity-suggestion-field.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=entitysuggestionfield-dataaware" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`EntitySuggestionField` allows searching for entity instances according to a string entered by a user. It performs actions when a user clicks buttons on the right.

`EntitySuggestionField` is an input field with the additional functionality: a user enters a few characters, and if several matches have been found, a drop-down list will display all of them. `EntitySuggestionField` refreshes the list of options on each entered symbol.

The list of options is loaded in the background according to the logic defined by the application developer on the server-side.

In fact, `EntitySuggestionField` is a hybrid of xref:vcl/components/suggestion-field.adoc[SuggestionField] and xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc[EntityPicker].

Component’s XML-name: `entitySuggestionField`.

== Basics

Use `EntitySuggestionField` if:

* Users need to select a single xref:data-model:entities.adoc[entity] instance.
* The number of options in the list of suggested values is too large to use  xref:vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc[EntityComboBox].
* You want to provide high-performance search in the database without loading much data to the UI layer.

image::vcl/components/entity-suggestion-field.gif[align="center"]

To create `EntitySuggestionField` connected to data, use the xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] and xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] attributes and the <<query,query>> element:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/entitysuggestionfield-screen.xml[tags=data-start;instance;data-end;layout-start;basic;layout-end]
----
<1> `InstanceContainer` for the `Address` entity.
<2> Inline fetch plan of the entity instance located in the container.

The screen defines the `addressDc` data container for the `Address` entity having the `country` attribute in the example above. In the `entitySuggestionField` element, the `dataContainer` attribute contains a link to the `addressDc` data container, and the `property` attribute refers to the `country` entity attribute. The entity attribute should be a reference to an entity. In our example, it is `Country`.

[[options]]
== Defining Options

You can specify a list of options either in the XML descriptor using the `query` nested element or programmatically in the controller using the `SearchExecutor` interface.

[[query]]
=== query

`query` is an optional element that enables defining a query for selecting suggested values.

The `query` element has the following attributes:

[[entityClass]]
* `entityClass` (required) - a full qualified name of an entity class.

[[fetch-plan]]
* `fetchPlan` - an optional attribute that specifies the fetch plan to be used for loading the queried entity.

[[escape-value-for-like]]
* `escapeValueForLike` - enables searching for the values that contain special symbols: `%`, `\`, etc. The default value is `false`.

[[search-string-format]]
* `searchStringFormat` - a Groovy string; thus, you can use any valid Groovy-string expressions.

[TIP]
====
To add `query` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Query* button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

[[search-executor]]
=== SearchExecutor

If `query` is not defined, you should programmatically set the list of options using `SearchExecutor`.

`SearchExecutor` is a functional interface that contains a single method: `List<E> search(String searchString, Map<String, Object> searchParams)`.

Use the `searchString` parameter to filter candidates using the string entered by the user.

First, declare a component in the XML descriptor:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/entitysuggestionfield-screen.xml[tags=entity-field]
----

Then set `SearchExecutor` to the component:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/EntitySuggestionFieldScreen.java[tags=autowired-data-manager;search-executor]
----

[TIP]
====
You can generate the `SearchExecutor` implementation stub using Studio.
====

[WARNING]
====
The `search()` method is executed in a background thread, so it cannot access visual components or data containers used by visual components. Call xref:data-access:data-manager.adoc[DataManager] or a middleware service directly, or process and return data loaded to the screen beforehand.
====

You can use the `escapeForLike()` method to search for the values that contain special symbols:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/suggestionfield/SuggestionFieldScreen.java[tags=autowired-data-manager;escape-for-like]
----

[[meta-class]]
== metaClass

You can use `EntitySuggestionField` without binding to the data container, that is, without setting `dataContainer` and `property`. In this case, use the `metaClass` attribute to specify an entity type for `EntitySuggestionField`. For example:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/entitysuggestionfield-screen.xml[tags=meta-class]
----

The search logic is defined using <<search-executor,SearchExecutor>>:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/EntitySuggestionFieldScreen.java[tags=autowired-data-manager;search-executor-metaclass]
----

[[actions]]
== Actions

You can define custom and predefined actions for `EntitySuggestionField` displayed as buttons on the right.
You can do it either in the XML descriptor using the `actions` nested element or programmatically in the controller using the `addAction()` method.

[TIP]
====
To add `action` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#add-picker-action[Add->Action] button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

[[predefined-actions]]
=== Predefined Actions

If you create `EntitySuggestionField` without actions, the XML loader will define only the `entity_lookup` and `entity_open` actions. There are also the `entity_clear` and `entity_openComposition` actions.

To add other predefined action, for example, the `entity_clear`, you should specify the `actions` element as follows:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/entitysuggestionfield-screen.xml[tags=field-with-actions]
----

The `actions` element does not extend but overrides a set of standard actions. You should define the identifiers of all required actions explicitly.

Use `addAction()` to set actions programmatically. If the component is defined in the XML descriptor without `actions` nested element, it is sufficient to add missing actions:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/EntitySuggestionFieldScreen.java[tags=add-action;init-start;add-action-2;init-end]
----

[[custom-actions]]
=== Custom Actions

Custom actions for `EntitySuggestionField` are similar to xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#custom-actions[custom actions] for `EntityPicker`.

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[arrow-down-handler]]
=== ArrowDownHandler

`ArrowDownEvent` is fired when a user presses *Arrow Down* key when the popup with suggestions is hidden.

You can set up your own action handler and use `EntitySuggestionField.showSuggestions()` method, which accepts the list of entities to show suggestions:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/EntitySuggestionFieldScreen.java[tags=arrow-down]
----

[[context-help-icon-click-handler]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickHandler

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickHandler].

[[enter-press-handler]]
=== EnterPressHandler

See the example of programmatic registration in the xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#handling-user-input[Handling User Input] section for `ComboBox`.

`EnterPressHandler` can be provided declaratively using the `@Install` annotation in the screen controller. See this example in the xref:vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc#handling-user-input[Handling User Input] section for `EntityComboBox`.

[[field-icon-provider]]
=== FieldIconProvider

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#field-icon-provider[FieldIconProvider].

[[field-value-change-event]]
=== FieldValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#field-value-change-event[FieldValueChangeEvent].

[[formatter]]
=== Formatter

Adds a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/formatter.adoc[formatter] instance to the component.

In the example below, we will show a `formatter` usage for the `cityFieldFormat` entity suggestion field:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitysuggestionfield/EntitySuggestionFieldScreen.java[tags=formatter]
----

To add a formatter programmatically, use the `addFormatter()` component method.

[[option-caption-provider]]
=== OptionCaptionProvider

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#option-caption-provider[OptionCaptionProvider].

[[search-executor-interface]]
=== SearchExecutor

See <<search-executor, SearchExecutor>>.

[[validator]]
=== Validator

See xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc#validator[Validator].

[[value-change-event]]
=== ValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#value-change-event[ValueChangeEvent].

[[xml]]
== EntitySuggestionField XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/components/suggestion-field.adoc#async-search-delay-ms[asyncSearchDelayMs] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-property[captionProperty] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#input-prompt[inputPrompt] -
<<meta-class,metaClass>> -
xref:vcl/components/suggestion-field.adoc#min-search-string-length[minSearchStringLength] -
xref:vcl/components/suggestion-field.adoc#popup-width[popupWidth] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/components/suggestion-field.adoc#suggestions-limit[suggestionsLimit] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

== EntitySuggestionField XML Elements

<<actions,actions>> -
xref:vcl/miscellaneous/formatter.adoc[formatter] -
<<query,query>> -
xref:vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc#validators-element[validators]
