content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/filter-components.adoc, before:

= Filter Components
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/filter-components.adoc

xref:vcl/components/filter.adoc[Filter] can use special filter components as conditions. Filter components should implement the `FilterComponent` interface.

There are three filter components available by default:

* <<property-filter,PropertyFilter>>
* <<jpql-filter,JpqlFilter>>
* <<group-filter,GroupFilter>>

You can register your own filter component, see <<filter-component-registration,Filter Component Registration>>.

[[property-filter]]
== PropertyFilter

The `PropertyFilter` component can be used inside the `Filter` component and independently.

The example below demonstrates how to create a design-time configuration with `PropertyFilter` in the XML descriptor:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/filter-screen.xml[tags=data-start;customersDc;data-end;layout-start;property-filter;layout-end]
----

You can also create a design-time configuration in the screen controller class:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/FilterScreen.java[tags=inject-ui-components;inject-single-filter-support;inject-pfdtc-filter;on-init-start;property-filter-design-time;on-init-end]
----

<1> Adds a design-time configuration with the `javaDefaultConfiguration` id and the `Default configuration` name.
<2> Creates the `PropertyFilter` component and sets its properties.
<3> Generates the filter value component by the given metaClass, entity property and operation.
<4> Adds the created property filter to the `javaDefaultConfiguration` configuration.
<5> Sets the `javaDefaultConfiguration` configuration as current.

See the additional information in xref:vcl/components/property-filter.adoc[PropertyFilter].

[[jpql-filter]]
== JpqlFilter

`JpqlFilter` is a UI component used for filtering entities returned by the `DataLoader`. The component contains JPQL expressions that will be added to the `from` and `where` data loader query sections. The component can automatically render the proper layout for setting a condition value. A `JpqlFilter` layout contains a label with a caption and a field for editing a condition value in the general case. The component can be used only inside the `Filter` component.

The example below demonstrates how to create a design-time configuration with a `JpqlFilter`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/filter-screen.xml[tags=window-start;data-start;customersDc;data-end;layout-start;filter-jpql-filter-start;filter-jpql-filter-simple;filter-jpql-filter-end;layout-end;window-end]
----
<1> You should add the JPQL conditions namespace.
<2> Define a JPQL condition with optional `join` element and mandatory `where` element.

To configure JPQL conditions, define the `condition` element inside `jpqlFilter` with optional xref:vcl/components/filter.adoc#jpql-conditions-join[join] element and mandatory xref:vcl/components/filter.adoc#jpql-conditions-where[where] element. In the example below, we create `jpqlFilter` with the `join` and `where` elements:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/filter-screen.xml[tags=filter-jpql-filter-start;filter-jpql-filter-join-where;filter-jpql-filter-end]
----

`jpqlFilter` attributes inside the `filter` component:

[[jpql-filter-caption]]
* You can set the condition name displayed in filter, using the `caption` attribute.

[[jpql-filter-default-value]]
* You can use the `defaultValue` attribute to set the default value for the filter condition.

[[jpql-filter-has-in-expression]]
* The `hasInExpression` attribute should be set to `true` if the JPQL expression contains `in (?)` conditions. In this case, the application will use the xref:vcl/components/values-picker.adoc[ValuesPicker] component. So the user will be able to enter several condition parameter values.
+
Below is an example of `jpqlFilter` with the `hasInExpression` attribute:
+
[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/filter-screen.xml[tags=filter-jpql-filter-start;filter-jpql-filter-has-in-expression;filter-jpql-filter-end]
----

[[jpql-filter-parameter-class]]
* `parameterClass` is a required attribute; it defines the Java class of the condition parameter.

[[jpql-filter-parameter-name]]
* `parameterName` - the name of the associated query parameter. You can use this name to introduce dependencies between filter components in configuration. If not defined, then the parameter name is randomly generated.

You can also create a design-time configuration in the screen controller class:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/FilterScreen.java[tags=inject-ui-components;inject-single-filter-support;inject-pfdtc-filter;on-init-start;jpql-filter-design-time;on-init-end]
----

<1> Adds a design-time configuration with the `javaDefaultConfiguration` id and the `Default configuration` name.
<2> Creates the `JpqlFilter` component and sets its properties.
<3> Generates the filter value component by the given metaClass, and value type.
<4> Adds the created jpql filter to the `javaDefaultConfiguration` configuration.
<5> Sets the `javaDefaultConfiguration` configuration as current.

[[jpql-parameterless]]
=== Filter without Parameters

It is possible to define a query without parameters. To do so, set the `parameterClass` value to `java.lang.Void`, and use `java.lang.Boolean` as a value:

* `true` value means that JPQL expressions from `where` and `join` sections will be added to the data loader query.

* `false` will not load expressions from `where` and `join` sections.

Example:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/filter-screen.xml[tags=filter-without-params]
----
<1> `parameterClass="java.lang.Void"` makes the filter parameterless, and `defaultValue="true"` defines that the `join` and `where` expressions will be added to the data loader query by default.
<2> Define a JPQL condition with optional `join` element and mandatory `where` element.

Below is an example of creating a parameterless JPQL filter in the screen controller class:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/FilterScreen.java[tags=inject-parameterless-filter;on-init-start;parameterless-filter-design-time;on-init-end]
----

The JPQL filter configuration without parameters can also be created at run-time:

image::vcl/components/jpql-parameterless.png[align="center"]

[[group-filter]]
== GroupFilter

The `GroupFilter` component is a composite component that has a xref:vcl/containers/group-box-layout.adoc[GroupBoxLayout] with a xref:vcl/containers/responsive-grid-layout.adoc[ResponsiveGridLayout] as its root container. This component is needed to combine several conditions into a logical group, using logical operators (`AND` or `OR`). The component can be used only inside the `Filter` component.

The example below demonstrates how to create a design-time configuration with a `GroupFilter`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/filter-screen.xml[tags=filter-group-filter]
----

[[group-filter-operation]]
The `operation` attribute is required. Two logical operations are available:

* `AND` is the default operation
* `OR`

You can also create a design-time configuration in the screen controller class:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/FilterScreen.java[tags=inject-ui-components;inject-single-filter-support;inject-pfdtc-filter;on-init-start;group-filter-design-time;on-init-end]
----

<1> Adds a design-time configuration with the `javaDefaultConfiguration` id and the `Default configuration` name.
<2> Creates the `GroupFilter` component and sets its properties.
<3> Sets the `OR` logical operation for `groupFilter`.
<4> Creates the `PropertyFilter` component and sets its properties.
<5> Adds `pointsPropertyFilter` to `groupFilter`.
<6> Adds `hobbyPropertyFilter` to `groupFilter`.
<7> Adds the created group filter to the `javaDefaultConfiguration` configuration.
<8> Sets a default value of `pointsPropertyFilter` for the `javaDefaultConfiguration` configuration by the parameter name.

[[filter-component-registration]]
== Filter Component Registration

To create and register a UI filter component in the framework, you need the following objects:

* A component class - a UI component that will be displayed inside the `Filter` component. A component class should extend the `FilterComponent` class. As an example of a component class, consider the `PropertyFilter` class.
* A model class - a non-persistent class that stores the state of the filter component. A model class is used to save the filter component state in DB and display and change the state of the filter component at run-time. A model class should extend the `FilterCondition` class. As an example of a model class, consider the `PropertyFilterCondition` class.
* A converter class is needed for converting between a component and a model. A converter class should implement the `FilterConverter` interface.
* An edit screen - the model edit screen. If no identifier is specified, then the default identifier (for example, `modelName.edit`, `PropertyFilterCondition.edit`) will be used.

`PropertyFilter` registration example:

[source,indent=0]
----
    @Bean
    public FilterComponentRegistration registerPropertyFilter() {
        return FilterComponentRegistrationBuilder.create(PropertyFilter.class,
                PropertyFilterCondition.class,
                PropertyFilterConverter.class)
                .withEditScreenId("ui_PropertyFilterCondition.edit")
                .build();
    }
----

All registered filter components are displayed in a xref:vcl/components/filter.adoc#registered-filters-popup-button[popup button] on the `Add Condition` dialog.

You can replace a filter component registered in the Jmix framework with your own implementation by specifying the `@Order` annotation on the `FilterComponentRegistration` bean (for example, to expand the set of model attributes saved by the filter).

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

[[xml-property-filter]]
=== PropertyFilter XML Attributes

See xref:vcl/components/property-filter.adoc#xml[PropertyFilter XML Attributes].

[[xml-jpql-filter]]
=== JpqlFilter XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
<<jpql-filter-caption,caption>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/components/property-filter.adoc#default-value[defaultValue] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
<<jpql-filter-has-in-expression,hasInExpression>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<jpql-filter-parameter-class,parameterClass>> -
<<jpql-filter-parameter-name,parameterName>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

[[xml-group-filter]]
=== GroupFilter XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<group-filter-operation,operation>> -
xref:vcl/components/property-filter.adoc#operation-caption-visible[operationCaptionVisible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/filter-components.adoc, after:

= Filter Components
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/filter-components.adoc

xref:vcl/components/filter.adoc[Filter] can use special filter components as conditions. Filter components should implement the `FilterComponent` interface.

There are three filter components available by default:

* <<property-filter,PropertyFilter>>
* <<jpql-filter,JpqlFilter>>
* <<group-filter,GroupFilter>>

You can register your own filter component, see <<filter-component-registration,Filter Component Registration>>.

[[property-filter]]
== PropertyFilter

The `PropertyFilter` component can be used inside the `Filter` component and independently.

The example below demonstrates how to create a design-time configuration with `PropertyFilter` in the XML descriptor:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/filter-screen.xml[tags=data-start;customersDc;data-end;layout-start;property-filter;layout-end]
----

[TIP]
====
To add `propertyFilter` in Jmix Studio, select the `Filter` component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Conditions->PropertyFilter* button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

You can also create a design-time configuration in the screen controller class:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/FilterScreen.java[tags=inject-ui-components;inject-single-filter-support;inject-pfdtc-filter;on-init-start;property-filter-design-time;on-init-end]
----

<1> Adds a design-time configuration with the `javaDefaultConfiguration` id and the `Default configuration` name.
<2> Creates the `PropertyFilter` component and sets its properties.
<3> Generates the filter value component by the given metaClass, entity property and operation.
<4> Adds the created property filter to the `javaDefaultConfiguration` configuration.
<5> Sets the `javaDefaultConfiguration` configuration as current.

See the additional information in xref:vcl/components/property-filter.adoc[PropertyFilter].

[[jpql-filter]]
== JpqlFilter

`JpqlFilter` is a UI component used for filtering entities returned by the `DataLoader`. The component contains JPQL expressions that will be added to the `from` and `where` data loader query sections. The component can automatically render the proper layout for setting a condition value. A `JpqlFilter` layout contains a label with a caption and a field for editing a condition value in the general case. The component can be used only inside the `Filter` component.

The example below demonstrates how to create a design-time configuration with a `JpqlFilter`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/filter-screen.xml[tags=window-start;data-start;customersDc;data-end;layout-start;filter-jpql-filter-start;filter-jpql-filter-simple;filter-jpql-filter-end;layout-end;window-end]
----
<1> You should add the JPQL conditions namespace.
<2> Define a JPQL condition with optional `join` element and mandatory `where` element.

To configure JPQL conditions, define the `condition` element inside `jpqlFilter` with optional xref:vcl/components/filter.adoc#jpql-conditions-join[join] element and mandatory xref:vcl/components/filter.adoc#jpql-conditions-where[where] element. In the example below, we create `jpqlFilter` with the `join` and `where` elements:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/filter-screen.xml[tags=filter-jpql-filter-start;filter-jpql-filter-join-where;filter-jpql-filter-end]
----

`jpqlFilter` attributes inside the `filter` component:

[[jpql-filter-caption]]
* You can set the condition name displayed in filter, using the `caption` attribute.

[[jpql-filter-default-value]]
* You can use the `defaultValue` attribute to set the default value for the filter condition.

[[jpql-filter-has-in-expression]]
* The `hasInExpression` attribute should be set to `true` if the JPQL expression contains `in (?)` conditions. In this case, the application will use the xref:vcl/components/values-picker.adoc[ValuesPicker] component. So the user will be able to enter several condition parameter values.
+
Below is an example of `jpqlFilter` with the `hasInExpression` attribute:
+
[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/filter-screen.xml[tags=filter-jpql-filter-start;filter-jpql-filter-has-in-expression;filter-jpql-filter-end]
----

[[jpql-filter-parameter-class]]
* `parameterClass` is a required attribute; it defines the Java class of the condition parameter.

[[jpql-filter-parameter-name]]
* `parameterName` - the name of the associated query parameter. You can use this name to introduce dependencies between filter components in configuration. If not defined, then the parameter name is randomly generated.

[TIP]
====
To add `jpqlFilter` in Jmix Studio, select the `Filter` component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Conditions->JPQLFilter* button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

You can also create a design-time configuration in the screen controller class:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/FilterScreen.java[tags=inject-ui-components;inject-single-filter-support;inject-pfdtc-filter;on-init-start;jpql-filter-design-time;on-init-end]
----

<1> Adds a design-time configuration with the `javaDefaultConfiguration` id and the `Default configuration` name.
<2> Creates the `JpqlFilter` component and sets its properties.
<3> Generates the filter value component by the given metaClass, and value type.
<4> Adds the created jpql filter to the `javaDefaultConfiguration` configuration.
<5> Sets the `javaDefaultConfiguration` configuration as current.

[[jpql-parameterless]]
=== Filter without Parameters

It is possible to define a query without parameters. To do so, set the `parameterClass` value to `java.lang.Void`, and use `java.lang.Boolean` as a value:

* `true` value means that JPQL expressions from `where` and `join` sections will be added to the data loader query.

* `false` will not load expressions from `where` and `join` sections.

Example:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/filter-screen.xml[tags=filter-without-params]
----
<1> `parameterClass="java.lang.Void"` makes the filter parameterless, and `defaultValue="true"` defines that the `join` and `where` expressions will be added to the data loader query by default.
<2> Define a JPQL condition with optional `join` element and mandatory `where` element.

Below is an example of creating a parameterless JPQL filter in the screen controller class:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/FilterScreen.java[tags=inject-parameterless-filter;on-init-start;parameterless-filter-design-time;on-init-end]
----

The JPQL filter configuration without parameters can also be created at run-time:

image::vcl/components/jpql-parameterless.png[align="center"]

[[group-filter]]
== GroupFilter

The `GroupFilter` component is a composite component that has a xref:vcl/containers/group-box-layout.adoc[GroupBoxLayout] with a xref:vcl/containers/responsive-grid-layout.adoc[ResponsiveGridLayout] as its root container. This component is needed to combine several conditions into a logical group, using logical operators (`AND` or `OR`). The component can be used only inside the `Filter` component.

The example below demonstrates how to create a design-time configuration with a `GroupFilter`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/filter-screen.xml[tags=filter-group-filter]
----

[[group-filter-operation]]
The `operation` attribute is required. Two logical operations are available:

* `AND` is the default operation
* `OR`

[TIP]
====
To add `groupFilter` in Jmix Studio, select the `Filter` component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Conditions->GroupFilter* button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

You can also create a design-time configuration in the screen controller class:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/filter/FilterScreen.java[tags=inject-ui-components;inject-single-filter-support;inject-pfdtc-filter;on-init-start;group-filter-design-time;on-init-end]
----

<1> Adds a design-time configuration with the `javaDefaultConfiguration` id and the `Default configuration` name.
<2> Creates the `GroupFilter` component and sets its properties.
<3> Sets the `OR` logical operation for `groupFilter`.
<4> Creates the `PropertyFilter` component and sets its properties.
<5> Adds `pointsPropertyFilter` to `groupFilter`.
<6> Adds `hobbyPropertyFilter` to `groupFilter`.
<7> Adds the created group filter to the `javaDefaultConfiguration` configuration.
<8> Sets a default value of `pointsPropertyFilter` for the `javaDefaultConfiguration` configuration by the parameter name.

[[filter-component-registration]]
== Filter Component Registration

To create and register a UI filter component in the framework, you need the following objects:

* A component class - a UI component that will be displayed inside the `Filter` component. A component class should extend the `FilterComponent` class. As an example of a component class, consider the `PropertyFilter` class.
* A model class - a non-persistent class that stores the state of the filter component. A model class is used to save the filter component state in DB and display and change the state of the filter component at run-time. A model class should extend the `FilterCondition` class. As an example of a model class, consider the `PropertyFilterCondition` class.
* A converter class is needed for converting between a component and a model. A converter class should implement the `FilterConverter` interface.
* An edit screen - the model edit screen. If no identifier is specified, then the default identifier (for example, `modelName.edit`, `PropertyFilterCondition.edit`) will be used.

`PropertyFilter` registration example:

[source,indent=0]
----
    @Bean
    public FilterComponentRegistration registerPropertyFilter() {
        return FilterComponentRegistrationBuilder.create(PropertyFilter.class,
                PropertyFilterCondition.class,
                PropertyFilterConverter.class)
                .withEditScreenId("ui_PropertyFilterCondition.edit")
                .build();
    }
----

All registered filter components are displayed in a xref:vcl/components/filter.adoc#registered-filters-popup-button[popup button] on the `Add Condition` dialog.

You can replace a filter component registered in the Jmix framework with your own implementation by specifying the `@Order` annotation on the `FilterComponentRegistration` bean (for example, to expand the set of model attributes saved by the filter).

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

[[xml-property-filter]]
=== PropertyFilter XML Attributes

See xref:vcl/components/property-filter.adoc#xml[PropertyFilter XML Attributes].

[[xml-jpql-filter]]
=== JpqlFilter XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
<<jpql-filter-caption,caption>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/components/property-filter.adoc#default-value[defaultValue] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
<<jpql-filter-has-in-expression,hasInExpression>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<jpql-filter-parameter-class,parameterClass>> -
<<jpql-filter-parameter-name,parameterName>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

[[xml-group-filter]]
=== GroupFilter XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<group-filter-operation,operation>> -
xref:vcl/components/property-filter.adoc#operation-caption-visible[operationCaptionVisible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]
