content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/form.adoc, before:

= Form
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/form.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=form-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

//todo add link to GridLayout
`Form` component is designed for the joint display and editing of multiple entity attributes.

Component's XML-name: `form`.

[[basics]]
== Basics

`Form` is a simple container similar to `GridLayout`. You can define any number of nested columns and fields declaratively in XML. Field captions are located to the left of the fields. The main difference from `GridLayout` is that `Form` enables binding all nested fields to one xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[data container].

Usage example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/form/form-screen.xml[tags=data-start;order-dc;data-end;layout-start;form-1;layout-end]
----

image::vcl/components/form-1.png[align="center"]

In the example above, the `Form` component shows attributes of the entity loaded into the `orderDc` data container. Nested form elements define visual components bound to entity attributes using the `property` XML attribute. Captions will be created automatically based on the localized names of entity attributes.

//todo add link to "component generation strategies" - pluggable component factories
Apart from concrete visual components, the `Form` can also contain generic fields defined with the nested `field` element. The framework will choose an appropriate visual component based on the corresponding entity attribute and existing component generation strategies.

The nested components can have any common or specific attributes like the `description` shown in the example. To add a nested component to the screen controller, give it the `id` attribute in XML.

[[attributes]]
== Attributes

[[data-container]]
* `dataContainer` - sets the xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[data container] for nested fields.
[[caption-position]]
* `captionPosition` - defines the fields caption position: `TOP` or `LEFT`.
[[children-caption-alignment]]
* `childrenCaptionAlignment` – defines the alignment of child component captions in all nested columns. Two options are available: `LEFT` and `RIGHT`. The default value is `LEFT`. Applicable only when the `captionPosition` attribute is `LEFT`.
[[children-caption-width]]
* `childrenCaptionWidth` – specifies fixed captions width for all nested columns and their child elements. Set `-1` to use auto size.
[[rowspan]] [[colspan]]
* `colspan` and `rowspan`:
+
The `Form` component supports the `colspan` and `rowspan` attributes. These attributes set the number of columns and rows occupied by the corresponding nested component. An example below demonstrates how `Field 1` can be extended to cover two columns:
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/form/form-screen.xml[tags=layout-start;form-2;layout-end]
----
+
image::vcl/components/form-2.png[align="center"]
+
Similarly, `Field 1` can be extended to cover two rows:
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/form/form-screen.xml[tags=layout-start;form-3;layout-end]
----
+
image::vcl/components/form-3.png[align="center"]

[[methods]]
== Methods

* `setChildrenCaptionAlignment(CaptionAlignment alignment)` – sets alignment of child component captions in all columns.
* `setChildrenCaptionAlignment(int column, CaptionAlignment alignment)` – sets alignment of child component captions for a column with the given index.
* `add()` - enables adding fields to the `Form` programmatically:
+
It takes a `Component` instance as a parameter, and you can also define the position of the new field by adding `column` and `row` indexes. Besides, an overloaded method can take `rowspan` and `colspan` parameters.
+
Data container is not assigned to the components added programmatically, so you have to use the component’s `setValueSource()` method for data binding.
+
For example:
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/form/form-screen.xml[tags=data-start;customer-dc;data-end;layout-start;form-4;layout-end]
----
+
You can add an `email` field to the form programmatically in the screen controller as follows:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/form/FormScreen.java[tags=form]
----

[[column-elements]]
== Column Element

`Column` is an optional element that allows you to position fields in multiple columns. For this purpose, nested fields should be placed not immediately within the `form`, but within a `column`. For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/form/form-screen.xml[tags=layout-start;form-5;layout-end]
----

In this case, fields will be arranged in two columns; the first column will contain all fields with a width of `250px`, the second one with a width of `400px`.

image::vcl/components/form-5.png[align="center"]

[[column-attributes]]
=== Column Attributes

//todo add link to screen extension
* `id` – an optional column identifier, which allows you to refer to it in case of screen extension.
* `width` – specifies the field width of a column. By default, fields have a width of `200px`. In this attribute, the width can be specified both in pixels and in the percentage of the total horizontal width of the column.
* `childrenCaptionWidth` – specifies fixed captions width for nested fields. Set `-1` to use auto size.
* `childrenCaptionAlignment` – defines the alignment of the nested fields captions. Two options are available: `LEFT` and `RIGHT`. The default value is `LEFT`. Applicable only when the `<<caption-position, captionPosition>>` attribute is `LEFT`.

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
<<caption-position, captionPosition>> -
<<children-caption-alignment, childrenCaptionAlignment>> -
<<children-caption-width, childrenCaptionWidth>> -
<<colspan, colspan>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
<<data-container, dataContainer>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
<<rowspan, rowspan>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/form.adoc, after:

= Form
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/form.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=form-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

//todo add link to GridLayout
`Form` component is designed for the joint display and editing of multiple entity attributes.

Component's XML-name: `form`.

[[basics]]
== Basics

`Form` is a simple container similar to `GridLayout`. You can define any number of nested columns and fields declaratively in XML. Field captions are located to the left of the fields. The main difference from `GridLayout` is that `Form` enables binding all nested fields to one xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[data container].

Usage example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/form/form-screen.xml[tags=data-start;order-dc;data-end;layout-start;form-1;layout-end]
----

image::vcl/components/form-1.png[align="center"]

In the example above, the `Form` component shows attributes of the entity loaded into the `orderDc` data container. Nested `form` elements define visual components bound to entity attributes using the `property` XML attribute. Captions will be created automatically based on the localized names of entity attributes.

//todo add link to "component generation strategies" - pluggable component factories
Apart from concrete visual components, the `Form` can also contain generic fields defined with the nested `field` element. The framework will choose an appropriate visual component based on the corresponding entity attribute and existing component generation strategies.

The nested components can have any common or specific attributes like the `description` shown in the example. To add a nested component to the screen controller, give it the `id` attribute in XML.

[TIP]
====
To add `field` in Jmix Studio, select the `Form` component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Field* button in the *Component Inspector* panel. The *Add Field* dialog appears. Select data container and properties and click *OK*.
====

[[attributes]]
== Attributes

[[data-container]]
* `dataContainer` - sets the xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[data container] for nested fields.
[[caption-position]]
* `captionPosition` - defines the fields caption position: `TOP` or `LEFT`.
[[children-caption-alignment]]
* `childrenCaptionAlignment` – defines the alignment of child component captions in all nested columns. Two options are available: `LEFT` and `RIGHT`. The default value is `LEFT`. Applicable only when the `captionPosition` attribute is `LEFT`.
[[children-caption-width]]
* `childrenCaptionWidth` – specifies fixed captions width for all nested columns and their child elements. Set `-1` to use auto size.
[[rowspan]] [[colspan]]
* `colspan` and `rowspan`:
+
The `Form` component supports the `colspan` and `rowspan` attributes. These attributes set the number of columns and rows occupied by the corresponding nested component. An example below demonstrates how `Field 1` can be extended to cover two columns:
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/form/form-screen.xml[tags=layout-start;form-2;layout-end]
----
+
image::vcl/components/form-2.png[align="center"]
+
Similarly, `Field 1` can be extended to cover two rows:
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/form/form-screen.xml[tags=layout-start;form-3;layout-end]
----
+
image::vcl/components/form-3.png[align="center"]

[[methods]]
== Methods

* `setChildrenCaptionAlignment(CaptionAlignment alignment)` – sets alignment of child component captions in all columns.
* `setChildrenCaptionAlignment(int column, CaptionAlignment alignment)` – sets alignment of child component captions for a column with the given index.
* `add()` - enables adding fields to the `Form` programmatically:
+
It takes a `Component` instance as a parameter, and you can also define the position of the new field by adding `column` and `row` indexes. Besides, an overloaded method can take `rowspan` and `colspan` parameters.
+
Data container is not assigned to the components added programmatically, so you have to use the component’s `setValueSource()` method for data binding.
+
For example:
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/form/form-screen.xml[tags=data-start;customer-dc;data-end;layout-start;form-4;layout-end]
----
+
You can add an `email` field to the form programmatically in the screen controller as follows:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/form/FormScreen.java[tags=form]
----

[[column-elements]]
== Column Element

`Column` is an optional element that allows you to position fields in multiple columns. For this purpose, nested fields should be placed not immediately within the `form`, but within a `column`. For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/form/form-screen.xml[tags=layout-start;form-5;layout-end]
----

In this case, fields will be arranged in two columns; the first column will contain all fields with a width of `250px`, the second one with a width of `400px`.

image::vcl/components/form-5.png[align="center"]

[TIP]
====
To add `column` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Column* button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

[[column-attributes]]
=== Column Attributes

//todo add link to screen extension
* `id` – an optional column identifier, which allows you to refer to it in case of screen extension.
* `width` – specifies the field width of a column. By default, fields have a width of `200px`. In this attribute, the width can be specified both in pixels and in the percentage of the total horizontal width of the column.
* `childrenCaptionWidth` – specifies fixed captions width for nested fields. Set `-1` to use auto size.
* `childrenCaptionAlignment` – defines the alignment of the nested fields captions. Two options are available: `LEFT` and `RIGHT`. The default value is `LEFT`. Applicable only when the `<<caption-position, captionPosition>>` attribute is `LEFT`.

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
<<caption-position, captionPosition>> -
<<children-caption-alignment, childrenCaptionAlignment>> -
<<children-caption-width, childrenCaptionWidth>> -
<<colspan, colspan>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
<<data-container, dataContainer>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
<<rowspan, rowspan>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]
