content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/group-table.adoc, before:

= GroupTable
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/group-table.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=grouptable-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

The `GroupTable` component is a table that supports the grouping of data by the values of one or multiple columns.

Component’s XML-name: `groupTable`.

== Basics

`GroupTable` primarily replicates the functionality of the xref:vcl/components/table.adoc[Table] component.

A typical group table is shown below:

image::vcl/components/group-table-anatomy.png[align="center"]

. Columns involved in data grouping
. A special group separator
. Grouped rows
. Expand group button
. Collapse group button

An example of `GroupTable` declaration in the XML screen descriptor is shown below:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/grouptable/groupTable-screen.xml[tags=data-start;customersDc;data-end;layout-start;group-table-simple;layout-end;]
----

In the example, there is a xref:data/collection-container.adoc[collection container] for the `Customer` entity. The table is bound to the container using the `dataContainer` attribute, while its `columns` element defines which entity attributes are shown in the table columns.

[[grouping]]
== Grouping

In order to group a table by a column, the required column should be dragged to the left and dropped in front of the image:vcl/components/group-table-icon.png[] element of the table header. Grouped values can be expanded and collapsed using image:vcl/components/group-table-plus.png[]/image:vcl/components/group-table-minus.png[] buttons.

image::vcl/components/group-table-grouping.gif[align="center"]

[[group]]
`group` is an optional element that can be present in a single instance inside columns. It contains a set of xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column[column] elements, by which grouping will be performed initially when opening a screen.

In the example below, we will use the xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#include-all[includeAll] attribute of the `columns` element along with the `group` element. The table is grouped by the `city` column:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/grouptable/groupTable-screen.xml[tags=group-tab-include]
----

[[column-group-allowed]]
Each `column` element can contain the `groupAllowed` attribute with boolean value. This attribute controls whether a user can group by this column. The default value is `true`.

[[fixed-grouping]]

The `fixedGrouping` attribute controls whether a user can change the columns involved in data grouping. The default value is `false`.

[[aggregatable]]
== Aggregating

`GroupTable` supports aggregation for table rows. For more information, see the xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregatable[Table] section.

If the `aggregatable` attribute is `true`, the table shows aggregation results for each group (group aggregation) and results for all rows (total aggregation) in an additional row on the top.

image::vcl/components/group-table-aggregation-anatomy.png[align="center"]

. Total aggregation
. Group aggregation

[[show-total-aggregation]]
If the `showTotalAggregation` attribute is `false`, the table does not show the total aggregation. The default value is `true`.

[[multiselect]]
== Multiselect

If the xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#multiselect[multiselect] attribute is `true`, the click to the group row holding down the *Ctrl* key will expand the group (if collapsed) and set the selection to all rows of this group. But if the whole group is selected, *Ctrl+click* will not deselect all the group. You can still deselect certain rows using the common *Ctrl* key behavior.

== Exporting Column Values

See the xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#exporting-column-values[Exporting Column Values] section for the `Table` component.

== Methods of GroupTable Interface

[[methods-group-by-columns]]
* `groupByColumns()` - performs grouping by the given table columns.
+
The example below will group the group table first by `level` and then by `city`:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/grouptable/GroupTableScreen.java[tags=group-by-columns]
----

[[methods-ungroup-by-columns]]
* `ungroupByColumns()` - resets grouping by the given columns.
+
The following example will ungroup the table by `level`, while grouping by `city` from the previous snippet will be kept.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/grouptable/GroupTableScreen.java[tags=ungroup-by-columns]
----

[[methods-ungroup]]
* `ungroup()` - resets grouping at all.

[[methods-set-show-items-count-for-group]]
* `setShowItemsCountForGroup()` - show or hide items count for `GroupTable` groups. The default value is `true`.

[[methods-get-aggregation-results]]
* The `getAggregationResults()` method returns a map with aggregation results for the specified <<aggregation-distribution-provider,GroupInfo>> object, where map keys are table column identifiers and values are aggregation values.

[[methods-set-style-provider]]
* The `setStyleProvider()` method allows setting table cell display style. For `GroupTable`, it will accept `GroupTable.GroupStyleProvider`, which extends `Table.StyleProvider`.
+
`GroupStyleProvider` has a specific method for styling grouping rows with the <<aggregation-distribution-provider,GroupInfo>> parameter. This method will be invoked for every grouping row in `GroupTable`.
+
Example of setting a style:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/grouptable/GroupTableScreen.java[tags=inject-styledTable;on-init-start;set-style-provider;on-init-end]
----

Then you should define the cell and row styles in the application theme. Detailed information on creating a theme is available in xref:themes.adoc[Themes]. Style names returned by the provider in the screen controller should be used as CSS selectors. For example:

[source,css,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/themes/helium-extended/helium-extended.scss[tags=group-table-styles]
----

image::vcl/components/group-table-style-provider.png[align="center"]

== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[aggregation-distribution-provider]]
=== AggregationDistributionProvider

`AggregationDistributionProvider` is similar to the xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregation-distribution-provider[same] provider for the `Table` component with the only difference that when creating a provider, the `GroupAggregationDistributionContext<V>` object is used, which contains additional `GroupInfo groupInfo` - an object with information about the grouping row: properties of the grouped columns and their values.

[[column-collapse-event]]
=== ColumnCollapseEvent

See xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-collapse-event[ColumnCollapseEvent].

[[column-reorder-event]]
=== ColumnReorderEvent

See xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-reorder-event[ColumnReorderEvent].

[[context-help-icon-click-handler]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickHandler

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickHandler].

[[empty-state-link-click-handler]]
=== EmptyStateLinkClickHandler

See xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#empty-state-click-event[EmptyStateClickEvent].

[[group-cell-value-formatter]]
=== GroupCellValueFormatter

`GroupCellValueFormatter` enables you to provide custom text displayed within group rows.

In the example below, we replace the default text with the following format: `<Grouped column name>: <Grouping value>`.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/grouptable/GroupTableScreen.java[tags=group-cell-value-formatter]
----

image::vcl/components/group-table-group-formatter.png[align="center"]

To register `GroupCellValueFormatter` programmatically, use the `setGroupCellValueFormatter()` component method.

[[icon-provider]]
=== IconProvider

See xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#icon-provider[IconProvider].

[[item-description-provider]]
=== ItemDescriptionProvider

See xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#item-description-provider[ItemDescriptionProvider].

[[lookup-select-handler]]
=== LookupSelectHandler

See xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#lookup-select-handler[LookupSelectHandler].

[[selection-event]]
=== SelectionEvent

See xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#selection-event[SelectionEvent].

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

=== Table XML Attributes
<<aggregatable,aggregatable>> -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregation-style[aggregationStyle] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-control-visible[columnControlVisible] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-header-visible[columnHeaderVisible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#context-menu-enabled[contextMenuEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#empty-state-link-message[emptyStateLinkMessage] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#empty-state-message[emptyStateMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
<<fixed-grouping,fixedGrouping>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#meta-class[metaClass] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#multi-line-cells[multiLineCells] -
<<multiselect,multiselect>> -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#reordering-allowed[reorderingAllowed] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#show-selection[showSelection] -
<<show-total-aggregation,showTotalAggregation>> -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#table-sorting[sortable] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#text-selection-enabled[textSelectionEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

[[xml-table-elements]]
=== Table XML Elements

xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#actions[actions] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#buttons-panel[buttonsPanel] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#columns[columns] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#paging[simplePagination]

=== Columns XML Attributes

xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#exclude[exclude] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#include-all[include-all]

=== Columns XML Elements

xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column[column] -
<<group,group>>

=== Column XML Attributes

xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-alignment[align] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#caption-property[captionProperty] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-collapsed[collapsed] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-date-format-resolution[dateFormat] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-expand-ratio[expandRatio] -
<<column-group-allowed,groupAllowed>> -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-id[id] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-link[link] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-link-screen-id[linkScreenId] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-link-screen-open-mode[linkScreenOpenMode] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-max-text-length[maxTextLength] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-options-container[optionsContainer] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-date-format-resolution[resolution] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-sort[sort] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-sortable[sortable] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-width[width]

=== Column XML Elements

<<aggregatable,aggregation>> -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-formatter[formatter]

=== Aggregation XML Attributes

xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregation-editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregation-strategy-class[strategyClass] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregation-type[type] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregation-value-description[valueDescription]

=== Aggregation XML Element

xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregation-formatter[formatter]

== API

<<methods-get-aggregation-results,getAggregationResults>> -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#methods-get-selected[getSelected] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#methods-get-selected[getSingleSelected] -
<<methods-group-by-columns,groupByColumns>> -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#methods-request-focus[requestFocus] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#methods-scroll-to[scrollTo] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#methods-set-enter-press-action[setEnterPressAction] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#methods-set-item-click-action[setItemClickAction] -
<<methods-set-show-items-count-for-group,setShowItemsCountForGroup>> -
<<methods-set-style-provider,setStyleProvider>> -
<<methods-ungroup,ungroup>> -
<<methods-ungroup-by-columns,ungroupByColumns>>

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/group-table.adoc, after:

= GroupTable
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/group-table.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=grouptable-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

The `GroupTable` component is a table that supports the grouping of data by the values of one or multiple columns.

Component’s XML-name: `groupTable`.

== Basics

`GroupTable` primarily replicates the functionality of the xref:vcl/components/table.adoc[Table] component.

A typical group table is shown below:

image::vcl/components/group-table-anatomy.png[align="center"]

. Columns involved in data grouping
. A special group separator
. Grouped rows
. Expand group button
. Collapse group button

An example of `GroupTable` declaration in the XML screen descriptor is shown below:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/grouptable/groupTable-screen.xml[tags=data-start;customersDc;data-end;layout-start;group-table-simple;layout-end;]
----

In the example, there is a xref:data/collection-container.adoc[collection container] for the `Customer` entity. The table is bound to the container using the `dataContainer` attribute, while its `columns` element defines which entity attributes are shown in the table columns.

[[grouping]]
== Grouping

In order to group a table by a column, the required column should be dragged to the left and dropped in front of the image:vcl/components/group-table-icon.png[] element of the table header. Grouped values can be expanded and collapsed using image:vcl/components/group-table-plus.png[]/image:vcl/components/group-table-minus.png[] buttons.

image::vcl/components/group-table-grouping.gif[align="center"]

[[group]]
`group` is an optional element that can be present in a single instance inside columns. It contains a set of xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column[column] elements, by which grouping will be performed initially when opening a screen.

In the example below, we will use the xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#include-all[includeAll] attribute of the `columns` element along with the `group` element. The table is grouped by the `city` column:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/grouptable/groupTable-screen.xml[tags=group-tab-include]
----

[TIP]
====
To add grouping columns in Jmix Studio, select the `GroupTable` component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#add-column[Add]*->Group->Column* button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

[[column-group-allowed]]
Each `column` element can contain the `groupAllowed` attribute with boolean value. This attribute controls whether a user can group by this column. The default value is `true`.

[[fixed-grouping]]

The `fixedGrouping` attribute controls whether a user can change the columns involved in data grouping. The default value is `false`.

[[aggregatable]]
== Aggregating

`GroupTable` supports aggregation for table rows. For more information, see the xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregatable[Table] section.

If the `aggregatable` attribute is `true`, the table shows aggregation results for each group (group aggregation) and results for all rows (total aggregation) in an additional row on the top.

image::vcl/components/group-table-aggregation-anatomy.png[align="center"]

. Total aggregation
. Group aggregation

[[show-total-aggregation]]
If the `showTotalAggregation` attribute is `false`, the table does not show the total aggregation. The default value is `true`.

[[multiselect]]
== Multiselect

If the xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#multiselect[multiselect] attribute is `true`, the click to the group row holding down the *Ctrl* key will expand the group (if collapsed) and set the selection to all rows of this group. But if the whole group is selected, *Ctrl+click* will not deselect all the group. You can still deselect certain rows using the common *Ctrl* key behavior.

== Exporting Column Values

See the xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#exporting-column-values[Exporting Column Values] section for the `Table` component.

== Methods of GroupTable Interface

[[methods-group-by-columns]]
* `groupByColumns()` - performs grouping by the given table columns.
+
The example below will group the group table first by `level` and then by `city`:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/grouptable/GroupTableScreen.java[tags=group-by-columns]
----

[[methods-ungroup-by-columns]]
* `ungroupByColumns()` - resets grouping by the given columns.
+
The following example will ungroup the table by `level`, while grouping by `city` from the previous snippet will be kept.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/grouptable/GroupTableScreen.java[tags=ungroup-by-columns]
----

[[methods-ungroup]]
* `ungroup()` - resets grouping at all.

[[methods-set-show-items-count-for-group]]
* `setShowItemsCountForGroup()` - show or hide items count for `GroupTable` groups. The default value is `true`.

[[methods-get-aggregation-results]]
* The `getAggregationResults()` method returns a map with aggregation results for the specified <<aggregation-distribution-provider,GroupInfo>> object, where map keys are table column identifiers and values are aggregation values.

[[methods-set-style-provider]]
* The `setStyleProvider()` method allows setting table cell display style. For `GroupTable`, it will accept `GroupTable.GroupStyleProvider`, which extends `Table.StyleProvider`.
+
`GroupStyleProvider` has a specific method for styling grouping rows with the <<aggregation-distribution-provider,GroupInfo>> parameter. This method will be invoked for every grouping row in `GroupTable`.
+
Example of setting a style:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/grouptable/GroupTableScreen.java[tags=inject-styledTable;on-init-start;set-style-provider;on-init-end]
----

Then you should define the cell and row styles in the application theme. Detailed information on creating a theme is available in xref:themes.adoc[Themes]. Style names returned by the provider in the screen controller should be used as CSS selectors. For example:

[source,css,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/themes/helium-extended/helium-extended.scss[tags=group-table-styles]
----

image::vcl/components/group-table-style-provider.png[align="center"]

== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[aggregation-distribution-provider]]
=== AggregationDistributionProvider

`AggregationDistributionProvider` is similar to the xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregation-distribution-provider[same] provider for the `Table` component with the only difference that when creating a provider, the `GroupAggregationDistributionContext<V>` object is used, which contains additional `GroupInfo groupInfo` - an object with information about the grouping row: properties of the grouped columns and their values.

[[column-collapse-event]]
=== ColumnCollapseEvent

See xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-collapse-event[ColumnCollapseEvent].

[[column-reorder-event]]
=== ColumnReorderEvent

See xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-reorder-event[ColumnReorderEvent].

[[context-help-icon-click-handler]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickHandler

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickHandler].

[[empty-state-link-click-handler]]
=== EmptyStateLinkClickHandler

See xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#empty-state-click-event[EmptyStateClickEvent].

[[group-cell-value-formatter]]
=== GroupCellValueFormatter

`GroupCellValueFormatter` enables you to provide custom text displayed within group rows.

In the example below, we replace the default text with the following format: `<Grouped column name>: <Grouping value>`.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/grouptable/GroupTableScreen.java[tags=group-cell-value-formatter]
----

image::vcl/components/group-table-group-formatter.png[align="center"]

To register `GroupCellValueFormatter` programmatically, use the `setGroupCellValueFormatter()` component method.

[[icon-provider]]
=== IconProvider

See xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#icon-provider[IconProvider].

[[item-description-provider]]
=== ItemDescriptionProvider

See xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#item-description-provider[ItemDescriptionProvider].

[[lookup-select-handler]]
=== LookupSelectHandler

See xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#lookup-select-handler[LookupSelectHandler].

[[selection-event]]
=== SelectionEvent

See xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#selection-event[SelectionEvent].

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

=== Table XML Attributes
<<aggregatable,aggregatable>> -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregation-style[aggregationStyle] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-control-visible[columnControlVisible] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-header-visible[columnHeaderVisible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#context-menu-enabled[contextMenuEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#empty-state-link-message[emptyStateLinkMessage] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#empty-state-message[emptyStateMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
<<fixed-grouping,fixedGrouping>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#meta-class[metaClass] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#multi-line-cells[multiLineCells] -
<<multiselect,multiselect>> -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#reordering-allowed[reorderingAllowed] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#show-selection[showSelection] -
<<show-total-aggregation,showTotalAggregation>> -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#table-sorting[sortable] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#text-selection-enabled[textSelectionEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

[[xml-table-elements]]
=== Table XML Elements

xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#actions[actions] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#buttons-panel[buttonsPanel] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#columns[columns] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#paging[simplePagination]

=== Columns XML Attributes

xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#exclude[exclude] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#include-all[include-all]

=== Columns XML Elements

xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column[column] -
<<group,group>>

=== Column XML Attributes

xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-alignment[align] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#caption-property[captionProperty] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-collapsed[collapsed] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-date-format-resolution[dateFormat] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-expand-ratio[expandRatio] -
<<column-group-allowed,groupAllowed>> -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-id[id] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-link[link] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-link-screen-id[linkScreenId] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-link-screen-open-mode[linkScreenOpenMode] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-max-text-length[maxTextLength] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-options-container[optionsContainer] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-date-format-resolution[resolution] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-sort[sort] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-sortable[sortable] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-width[width]

=== Column XML Elements

<<aggregatable,aggregation>> -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#column-formatter[formatter]

=== Aggregation XML Attributes

xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregation-editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregation-strategy-class[strategyClass] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregation-type[type] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregation-value-description[valueDescription]

=== Aggregation XML Element

xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#aggregation-formatter[formatter]

== API

<<methods-get-aggregation-results,getAggregationResults>> -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#methods-get-selected[getSelected] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#methods-get-selected[getSingleSelected] -
<<methods-group-by-columns,groupByColumns>> -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#methods-request-focus[requestFocus] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#methods-scroll-to[scrollTo] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#methods-set-enter-press-action[setEnterPressAction] -
xref:vcl/components/table.adoc#methods-set-item-click-action[setItemClickAction] -
<<methods-set-show-items-count-for-group,setShowItemsCountForGroup>> -
<<methods-set-style-provider,setStyleProvider>> -
<<methods-ungroup,ungroup>> -
<<methods-ungroup-by-columns,ungroupByColumns>>
