content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/image.adoc, before:

= Image
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/image.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=image-url" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`Image` component is designed for displaying images from different sources. The component can be bound to a xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[data container] or configured programmatically.

Component's XML-name: `image`.

[[basics]]
== Basics

The `Image` component can display the value of an entity attribute of `FileRef` or `byte[]` type. In the example below, the entity has the `image` attribute which is a reference to a file in xref:files:file-storage.adoc[file storage]:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/entity/Person.java[tags=file-storage-upload-field]
----

In the simplest case, the component can be declaratively associated with data using the xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] and xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] attributes:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=data-start;instance;data-end;layout-start;simple-image;layout-end]
----

In the example above, the component displays the `image` attribute of the `Person` entity located in the `personDc` data container.

[[resources]]
== Resources

Alternatively, the `Image` component can display images from different resources. You can set the resource type declaratively using the nested XML elements described below, or programmatically using the `setSource()` method.

[[classpath-resource]]
=== ClasspathResource

A resource that is located in the classpath.

* In XML: `classpath` element with the `path` attribute.
+
For example, if your image is located at `ui/ex1/screen/component/image/jmix-logo.png` under `src/main/resources`, you can specify the displayed resource as follows:
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=classpath]
----

* In Java: `ClasspathResource` interface.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageResourceScreen.java[tags=image-classpath]
----

[[file-resource]]
=== FileResource

A resource that is stored in the server file system.

* In XML: `file` element with the `path` attribute.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=file-resource]
----

* In Java: `FileResource` interface.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageResourceScreen.java[tags=image-file-resource]
----

[[file-storage-resource]]
=== FileStorageResource

An image stored in the xref:files:file-storage.adoc[file storage].

* In XML: `property` attribute of `image`.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=simple-image]
----

* In Java: `FileStorageResource` interface.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageResourceScreen.java[tags=image-file-storage-resource]
----

[[relative-path-resource]]
=== RelativePathResource

An image served statically by the application.

By default, static content is served from `/static`, `/public`, `/resources`, or `/META-INF/resources` directories of the classpath (see details in the https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/web.html#web.servlet.spring-mvc.static-content[Spring Boot documentation^]).

* In XML: `relativePath` element with the `path` attribute.
+
For example, an image located at `src/main/resources/static/images/jmix-icon-login.svg` can be displayed as follows:
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=relative-path]
----
+
The image will also be available at `++http://{host}:{port}/images/jmix-icon-login.svg++`.

* In Java: `RelativePathResource` interface.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageResourceScreen.java[tags=image-relative-path]
----

[[stream-resource]]
=== StreamResource

An image provided by an `InputStream`.

* In Java: `StreamResource` interface.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageResourceScreen.java[tags=image-stream]
----

[[theme-resource]]
=== ThemeResource

An image located in the current xref:themes.adoc[theme].

In the example below, an image is located in the `images` directory of the `helium-ext` custom theme:

image::vcl/components/images-theme-resources.png[align="center"]

Then you can use it in the `Image` component as follows:

* In XML: `theme` element with the `path` attribute.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=theme-resource]
----

* In Java: `ThemeResource` interface:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageResourceScreen.java[tags=image-theme]
----

[[url-resource]]
=== UrlResource

An image that can be loaded from an arbitrary URL.

* In XML: `url` element with the `url` attribute.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=url-resource]
----

* In Java: `UrlResource` interface.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageResourceScreen.java[tags=image-url]
----

[[resource-settings]]
=== Resource Settings

* `bufferSize` - size of the download buffer in bytes used for this resource.
* `cacheTime` - length of cache expiration time in milliseconds.
* `mimeType` - MIME type of the resource.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=mime]
----

[[attributes]]
== Attributes

[[alternate-text]]
* `alternateText` - sets an alternate text for an image in case the resource is not set or unavailable.

[[scale-mode]]
* `scaleMode` - applies the scale mode to the image. It corresponds to the `object-fit` CSS property. The following scale modes are available:
** `FILL` - the image is stretched according to the size of the component.
** `CONTAIN` - the image is compressed or stretched to fit the component dimensions while preserving the proportions.
** `COVER` - the image is compressed or stretched to fill the entire component while preserving the proportions. If the image proportions do not match the component's proportions then the image will be clipped to fit.
** `SCALE_DOWN` - the image is sized as if `NONE` or `CONTAIN` were specified, whichever would result in a smaller concrete object size.
** `NONE` - the image is not resized.

[[methods]]
== Methods

To programmatically manage the `Image` component, use the following methods:

* `setValueSource()` - sets the data container, and the entity attribute name. Only `FileRef` and `byte[]` type of attributes are supported.
+
The data container can be set programmatically, for example, to display images in table cells:
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=data-start;collection;data-end;layout-start;group-table;layout-end]
----
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageScreen.java[tags=value-source]
----

* `setSource()` - sets the <<resources,resource>> for the component. The method accepts the resource type and returns the resource object that can be configured using the fluent interface.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=layout-start;programmatic-image;layout-end]
----
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageScreen.java[tags=set-source]
----

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[click-event]]
=== ClickEvent

See xref:vcl/components/button.adoc#click-event[ClickEvent].

[[context-help-icon-click-event]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickEvent

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickEvent].

[[source-change-event]]
=== SourceChangeEvent

`SourceChangeEvent` is sent when a source of an image is changed. `SourceChangeEvent` has the following methods:

* `getNewSource()`
* `getOldSource()`

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageScreen.java[tags=source-change-event]
----

To register the event handler programmatically, use the `addSourceChangeListener()` component method.

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

=== Image XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
<<alternate-text, alternateText>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
<<scale-mode, scaleMode>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

=== Image XML Elements

<<resources,resource>>

=== Resources XML Elements

<<resource-classpath,classpath>> -
<<resource-file,file>> -
<<resource-relative-path,relativePath>> -
<<resource-theme,theme>> -
<<resource-url,url>>

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/image.adoc, after:

= Image
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/image.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=image-url" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`Image` component is designed for displaying images from different sources. The component can be bound to a xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[data container] or configured programmatically.

Component's XML-name: `image`.

[[basics]]
== Basics

The `Image` component can display the value of an entity attribute of `FileRef` or `byte[]` type. In the example below, the entity has the `image` attribute which is a reference to a file in xref:files:file-storage.adoc[file storage]:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/entity/Person.java[tags=file-storage-upload-field]
----

In the simplest case, the component can be declaratively associated with data using the xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] and xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] attributes:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=data-start;instance;data-end;layout-start;simple-image;layout-end]
----

In the example above, the component displays the `image` attribute of the `Person` entity located in the `personDc` data container.

[[resources]]
== Resources

Alternatively, the `Image` component can display images from different resources. You can set the resource type declaratively using the nested XML elements described below, or programmatically using the `setSource()` method.

[TIP]
====
To define `resource` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Resource* button in the *Component Inspector* panel. Select the appropriate resource.
====

[[classpath-resource]]
=== ClasspathResource

A resource that is located in the classpath.

* In XML: `classpath` element with the `path` attribute.
+
For example, if your image is located at `ui/ex1/screen/component/image/jmix-logo.png` under `src/main/resources`, you can specify the displayed resource as follows:
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=classpath]
----

* In Java: `ClasspathResource` interface.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageResourceScreen.java[tags=image-classpath]
----

[[file-resource]]
=== FileResource

A resource that is stored in the server file system.

* In XML: `file` element with the `path` attribute.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=file-resource]
----

* In Java: `FileResource` interface.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageResourceScreen.java[tags=image-file-resource]
----

[[file-storage-resource]]
=== FileStorageResource

An image stored in the xref:files:file-storage.adoc[file storage].

* In XML: `property` attribute of `image`.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=simple-image]
----

* In Java: `FileStorageResource` interface.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageResourceScreen.java[tags=image-file-storage-resource]
----

[[relative-path-resource]]
=== RelativePathResource

An image served statically by the application.

By default, static content is served from `/static`, `/public`, `/resources`, or `/META-INF/resources` directories of the classpath (see details in the https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/web.html#web.servlet.spring-mvc.static-content[Spring Boot documentation^]).

* In XML: `relativePath` element with the `path` attribute.
+
For example, an image located at `src/main/resources/static/images/jmix-icon-login.svg` can be displayed as follows:
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=relative-path]
----
+
The image will also be available at `++http://{host}:{port}/images/jmix-icon-login.svg++`.

* In Java: `RelativePathResource` interface.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageResourceScreen.java[tags=image-relative-path]
----

[[stream-resource]]
=== StreamResource

An image provided by an `InputStream`.

* In Java: `StreamResource` interface.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageResourceScreen.java[tags=image-stream]
----

[[theme-resource]]
=== ThemeResource

An image located in the current xref:themes.adoc[theme].

In the example below, an image is located in the `images` directory of the `helium-ext` custom theme:

image::vcl/components/images-theme-resources.png[align="center"]

Then you can use it in the `Image` component as follows:

* In XML: `theme` element with the `path` attribute.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=theme-resource]
----

* In Java: `ThemeResource` interface:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageResourceScreen.java[tags=image-theme]
----

[[url-resource]]
=== UrlResource

An image that can be loaded from an arbitrary URL.

* In XML: `url` element with the `url` attribute.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=url-resource]
----

* In Java: `UrlResource` interface.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageResourceScreen.java[tags=image-url]
----

[[resource-settings]]
=== Resource Settings

* `bufferSize` - size of the download buffer in bytes used for this resource.
* `cacheTime` - length of cache expiration time in milliseconds.
* `mimeType` - MIME type of the resource.

For example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=mime]
----

[[attributes]]
== Attributes

[[alternate-text]]
* `alternateText` - sets an alternate text for an image in case the resource is not set or unavailable.

[[scale-mode]]
* `scaleMode` - applies the scale mode to the image. It corresponds to the `object-fit` CSS property. The following scale modes are available:
** `FILL` - the image is stretched according to the size of the component.
** `CONTAIN` - the image is compressed or stretched to fit the component dimensions while preserving the proportions.
** `COVER` - the image is compressed or stretched to fill the entire component while preserving the proportions. If the image proportions do not match the component's proportions then the image will be clipped to fit.
** `SCALE_DOWN` - the image is sized as if `NONE` or `CONTAIN` were specified, whichever would result in a smaller concrete object size.
** `NONE` - the image is not resized.

[[methods]]
== Methods

To programmatically manage the `Image` component, use the following methods:

* `setValueSource()` - sets the data container, and the entity attribute name. Only `FileRef` and `byte[]` type of attributes are supported.
+
The data container can be set programmatically, for example, to display images in table cells:
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=data-start;collection;data-end;layout-start;group-table;layout-end]
----
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageScreen.java[tags=value-source]
----

* `setSource()` - sets the <<resources,resource>> for the component. The method accepts the resource type and returns the resource object that can be configured using the fluent interface.
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/image-screen.xml[tags=layout-start;programmatic-image;layout-end]
----
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageScreen.java[tags=set-source]
----

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[click-event]]
=== ClickEvent

See xref:vcl/components/button.adoc#click-event[ClickEvent].

[[context-help-icon-click-event]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickEvent

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickEvent].

[[source-change-event]]
=== SourceChangeEvent

`SourceChangeEvent` is sent when a source of an image is changed. `SourceChangeEvent` has the following methods:

* `getNewSource()`
* `getOldSource()`

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/image/ImageScreen.java[tags=source-change-event]
----

To register the event handler programmatically, use the `addSourceChangeListener()` component method.

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

=== Image XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
<<alternate-text, alternateText>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-container[dataContainer] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#property[property] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
<<scale-mode, scaleMode>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

=== Image XML Elements

<<resources,resource>>

=== Resources XML Elements

<<classpath-resource,classpath>> -
<<file-resource,file>> -
<<relative-path-resource,relativePath>> -
<<theme-resource,theme>> -
<<url-resource,url>>
