content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/pagination.adoc, before:

= Pagination
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/pagination.adoc

`Pagination` is a component used to load data by pages. It allows users to navigate through a large amount of data with predictable performance.

See also xref:vcl/components/simple-pagination.adoc[SimplePagination] component which has a different visual representation and can be used inside the `Table`, `DataGrid`, and other list components.

Component’s XML-name: `pagination`.

== Basics

`Pagination` contains page numbers that enable the user to select a specific page, and a drop-down list to choose the number of items per page.

To use pagination together with the list component, you should <<data-binding,bind>> the `Pagination` component and the list component to the same data source.

image::vcl/components/pagination.png[align="center"]

[[data-binding]]
== Data Binding

To create `Pagination` connected to data, use the `containerProvider` or `loaderProvider` nested element.

[NOTE]
====
`Pagination` must have only one provider.
====

[[container-provider]]
=== containerProvider

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/pagination-screen.xml[tags=data-start;customers-collection;data-end;layout-start;pagination-container-provider;layout-end]
----
<1> `CollectionContainer` for the `Customer` entity.
<2> The `Pagination` component is connected to the data source using the `dataContainer` attribute of the `containerProvider` nested element.

[[loader-provider]]
=== loaderProvider

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/pagination-screen.xml[tags=data-start;cities-collection;data-end;layout-start;pagination-loader-provider;layout-end]
----
<1> The `citiesDl` `CollectionLoader` loads a collection of entities by a JPQL query.
<2> The `Pagination` component is connected to the data source using the `loaderId` attribute of the `loaderProvider` nested element.

[[items-per-page]]
== Items per Page

[[items-per-page-visible]]
`Pagination` has a special `ComboBox` with options to limit the number of items for one page. To make it visible, set the `itemsPerPageVisible` attribute to the `true` value. The default value is `false`.

image::vcl/components/pagination-items-per-page-combo-box.png[align="center"]

[[items-per-page-options]]
The default value of this list is specified in the xref:app-properties.adoc#jmix.ui.component.pagination-items-per-page-options[jmix.ui.component.pagination-items-per-page-options] property.

You can configure a custom list of options using the `itemsPerPageOptions` attribute. The value of the attribute should be a comma-separated list of options:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/pagination-screen.xml[tags=items-options]
----

[NOTE]
====
Options less than or equal to `0` are ignored; options greater than entity's max fetch size (`jmix.ui.entityMaxFetchSize`) will be replaced by it.
====

[[items-per-page-default-value]]
To set a default value from options use the `itemsPerPageDefaultValue` attribute:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/pagination-screen.xml[tags=items-options-default]
----

[[items-per-page-unlimited-option-visible]]
The `itemsPerPageUnlimitedOptionVisible` attribute sets the visibility of unlimited (null) option value in the items per page `ComboBox`. If the null option is selected, the component will try to load data with the `jmix.ui.entityMaxFetchSize` limitation. The default value is `true`.

[[max-visible-pages]]
== Maximum Visible Pages

The `Pagination` component lets you change the number of maximum visible pages using the `maxVisiblePages` attribute. The component can have many pages, but users will see a number of pages at once that correspond to the `maxVisiblePages` attribute. The default value is `5`. For example, if we set `maxVisiblePages="3"`, we will see only three pages at once:

image::vcl/components/pagination-max-visible-pages.png[align="center"]

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[page-change-event]]
=== PageChangeEvent

`PageChangeEvent` is fired when the user selects another page or clicks on navigation buttons (next, previous, etc.).

Example of subscribing to the event for the `Pagination` component defined in the screen XML with the `pagination` id:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/PaginationScreen.java[tags=page-change-event]
----

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addPageChangeListener()` component method.

[[before-refresh-event]]
=== BeforeRefreshEvent

`BeforeRefreshEvent` is fired before refreshing the data when the user clicks next, previous, etc. You can prevent the data container refresh by invoking the `preventRefresh()` method, for example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/PaginationScreen.java[tags=before-refresh-event]
----
<1> Check the number of instances in the data store.
<2> Prevent refreshing the data.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addBeforeRefreshListener()` component method.

[[after-refresh-event]]
=== AfterRefreshEvent

`AfterRefreshEvent` is invoked when data is refreshed.

Example of subscribing to the event for the `Pagination` component defined in the screen XML with the `paginationWithDefault` id:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/PaginationScreen.java[tags=after-refresh-event]
----

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addAfterRefreshListener()` component method.

[[total-count-delegate]]
=== TotalCountDelegate

`TotalCountDelegate` is a handler that is used to get the total count of items. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/PaginationScreen.java[tags=total-count-delegate]
----

The `setTotalCountDelegate()` method sets the `TotalCountDelegate` handler programmatically.

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
<<items-per-page-default-value,itemsPerPageDefaultValue>> -
<<items-per-page-options,itemsPerPageOptions>> -
<<items-per-page-unlimited-option-visible,itemsPerPageUnlimitedOptionVisible>> -
<<items-per-page-visible,itemsPerPageVisible>> -
<<max-visible-pages,maxVisiblePages>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/pagination.adoc, after:

= Pagination
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/pagination.adoc

`Pagination` is a component used to load data by pages. It allows users to navigate through a large amount of data with predictable performance.

See also xref:vcl/components/simple-pagination.adoc[SimplePagination] component which has a different visual representation and can be used inside the `Table`, `DataGrid`, and other list components.

Component’s XML-name: `pagination`.

== Basics

`Pagination` contains page numbers that enable the user to select a specific page, and a drop-down list to choose the number of items per page.

To use pagination together with the list component, you should <<data-binding,bind>> the `Pagination` component and the list component to the same data source.

image::vcl/components/pagination.png[align="center"]

[[data-binding]]
== Data Binding

To create `Pagination` connected to data, use the `containerProvider` or `loaderProvider` nested element.

[NOTE]
====
`Pagination` must have only one provider.
====

[[container-provider]]
=== containerProvider

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/pagination-screen.xml[tags=data-start;customers-collection;data-end;layout-start;pagination-container-provider;layout-end]
----
<1> `CollectionContainer` for the `Customer` entity.
<2> The `Pagination` component is connected to the data source using the `dataContainer` attribute of the `containerProvider` nested element.

[TIP]
====
To define `containerProvider` in Jmix Studio, select the `Pagination` component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Container Provider* button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

[[loader-provider]]
=== loaderProvider

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/pagination-screen.xml[tags=data-start;cities-collection;data-end;layout-start;pagination-loader-provider;layout-end]
----
<1> The `citiesDl` `CollectionLoader` loads a collection of entities by a JPQL query.
<2> The `Pagination` component is connected to the data source using the `loaderId` attribute of the `loaderProvider` nested element.

[TIP]
====
To define `loaderProvider` in Jmix Studio, select the `Pagination` component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Loader Provider* button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

[[items-per-page]]
== Items per Page

[[items-per-page-visible]]
`Pagination` has a special `ComboBox` with options to limit the number of items for one page. To make it visible, set the `itemsPerPageVisible` attribute to the `true` value. The default value is `false`.

image::vcl/components/pagination-items-per-page-combo-box.png[align="center"]

[[items-per-page-options]]
The default value of this list is specified in the xref:app-properties.adoc#jmix.ui.component.pagination-items-per-page-options[jmix.ui.component.pagination-items-per-page-options] property.

You can configure a custom list of options using the `itemsPerPageOptions` attribute. The value of the attribute should be a comma-separated list of options:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/pagination-screen.xml[tags=items-options]
----

[NOTE]
====
Options less than or equal to `0` are ignored; options greater than entity's max fetch size (`jmix.ui.entityMaxFetchSize`) will be replaced by it.
====

[[items-per-page-default-value]]
To set a default value from options use the `itemsPerPageDefaultValue` attribute:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/pagination-screen.xml[tags=items-options-default]
----

[[items-per-page-unlimited-option-visible]]
The `itemsPerPageUnlimitedOptionVisible` attribute sets the visibility of unlimited (null) option value in the items per page `ComboBox`. If the null option is selected, the component will try to load data with the `jmix.ui.entityMaxFetchSize` limitation. The default value is `true`.

[[max-visible-pages]]
== Maximum Visible Pages

The `Pagination` component lets you change the number of maximum visible pages using the `maxVisiblePages` attribute. The component can have many pages, but users will see a number of pages at once that correspond to the `maxVisiblePages` attribute. The default value is `5`. For example, if we set `maxVisiblePages="3"`, we will see only three pages at once:

image::vcl/components/pagination-max-visible-pages.png[align="center"]

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[page-change-event]]
=== PageChangeEvent

`PageChangeEvent` is fired when the user selects another page or clicks on navigation buttons (next, previous, etc.).

Example of subscribing to the event for the `Pagination` component defined in the screen XML with the `pagination` id:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/PaginationScreen.java[tags=page-change-event]
----

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addPageChangeListener()` component method.

[[before-refresh-event]]
=== BeforeRefreshEvent

`BeforeRefreshEvent` is fired before refreshing the data when the user clicks next, previous, etc. You can prevent the data container refresh by invoking the `preventRefresh()` method, for example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/PaginationScreen.java[tags=before-refresh-event]
----
<1> Check the number of instances in the data store.
<2> Prevent refreshing the data.

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addBeforeRefreshListener()` component method.

[[after-refresh-event]]
=== AfterRefreshEvent

`AfterRefreshEvent` is invoked when data is refreshed.

Example of subscribing to the event for the `Pagination` component defined in the screen XML with the `paginationWithDefault` id:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/PaginationScreen.java[tags=after-refresh-event]
----

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addAfterRefreshListener()` component method.

[[total-count-delegate]]
=== TotalCountDelegate

`TotalCountDelegate` is a handler that is used to get the total count of items. For example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/pagination/PaginationScreen.java[tags=total-count-delegate]
----

The `setTotalCountDelegate()` method sets the `TotalCountDelegate` handler programmatically.

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
<<items-per-page-default-value,itemsPerPageDefaultValue>> -
<<items-per-page-options,itemsPerPageOptions>> -
<<items-per-page-unlimited-option-visible,itemsPerPageUnlimitedOptionVisible>> -
<<items-per-page-visible,itemsPerPageVisible>> -
<<max-visible-pages,maxVisiblePages>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]
