content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/popup-button.adoc, before:

= PopupButton
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/popup-button.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=popupbutton-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`PopupButton` is a `xref:vcl/components/button.adoc[]` with a popup. Popup may contain a drop-down list of actions or custom content.

Component's XML-name: `popupButton`.

image::vcl/components/popup-button.gif[align="center"]

[[basics]]
== Basics

`PopupButton` can contain text specified in the `caption` and `icon` attributes, or both. You can define a tooltip in the `description` attribute. The figure below shows different types of buttons:

image::vcl/components/popup-buttons.png[align="center"]

[[elements]]
== Elements

[[actions]]
=== actions

This element specifies the drop-down actions list.

Only the `caption`, `enable`, and `visible` properties are displayed.  The `description` and `shortcut` properties are ignored. Handling of the `icon` property depends on the `showActionIcons` attribute of the component. By default, `showActionIcons=false`.

Below is an example of a `PopupButton` with a drop-down list containing two actions:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/popupbutton/popup-button-screen.xml[tags=popup-button]
----

image::vcl/components/popup-icons.png[align="center"]

You can create the actions from scratch or use the actions already defined for any element in the current screen. In the example below, the `personsPopupButton` component uses actions defined in `personsTable`:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/popupbutton/popup-button-screen.xml[tags=persons-popup-button]
----

[[popup]]
=== popup

This element sets custom inner content for the `PopupButton`. Actions are ignored if a custom popup content is set.

Below is an example of a custom popup layout:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/popupbutton/popup-button-screen.xml[tags=custom-popup-button]
----

image::vcl/components/custom-popup-button.gif[align="center"]

[[attributes]]
== Attributes

[[auto-close]]
* `autoClose` - defines if the popup should be closed automatically after the action triggering.

[[close-popup-on-outside-click]]
* `closePopupOnOutsideClick` - if set to `true`, clicking outside the popup closes it. This does not affect clicking on the button itself.

[[menu-width]]
* `menuWidth` - sets the popup menu width.

[[show-action-icons]]
* `showActionIcons` - enables displaying icons for action buttons.

[[toggle-popup-visibility-on-click]]
* `togglePopupVisibilityOnClick` - defines whether a sequential click on the popup should toggle popup visibility.

[[popup-open-direction]]
* `popupOpenDirection` - sets the opening direction for the popup. Possible values:
** `BOTTOM_LEFT`
** `BOTTOM_RIGHT`
** `BOTTOM_CENTER`

[[popup-visibility]]
== Tracking Popup Visibility

You can track the popup visibility changes by subscribing to the corresponding event:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/popupbutton/PopupButtonScreen.java[tags=event]
----

Also, you can add a listener for this event using the component's API, for example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/popupbutton/PopupButtonScreen.java[tags=listener]
----

[[appearance]]
== Appearance

//todo add a link to theme extension
The `PopupButton` component's appearance can be customized using SCSS variables with `$jmix-popupbutton-*` prefix. You can change these variables in the visual editor after creating a theme extension or a xref:themes/custom_theme.adoc[custom theme].

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
<<auto-close, autoClose>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
<<close-popup-on-outside-click, closePopupOnOutsideClick>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<menu-width, menuWidth>> -
<<popup-open-direction, popupOpenDirection>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
<<show-action-icons, showActionIcons>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
<<toggle-popup-visibility-on-click, togglePopupVisibilityOnClick>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/popup-button.adoc, after:

= PopupButton
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/popup-button.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=popupbutton-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`PopupButton` is a `xref:vcl/components/button.adoc[]` with a popup. Popup may contain a drop-down list of actions or custom content.

Component's XML-name: `popupButton`.

image::vcl/components/popup-button.gif[align="center"]

[[basics]]
== Basics

`PopupButton` can contain text specified in the `caption` and `icon` attributes, or both. You can define a tooltip in the `description` attribute. The figure below shows different types of buttons:

image::vcl/components/popup-buttons.png[align="center"]

[[elements]]
== Elements

[[actions]]
=== actions

This element specifies the drop-down actions list.

Only the `caption`, `enable`, and `visible` properties are displayed.  The `description` and `shortcut` properties are ignored. Handling of the `icon` property depends on the `showActionIcons` attribute of the component. By default, `showActionIcons=false`.

Below is an example of a `PopupButton` with a drop-down list containing two actions:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/popupbutton/popup-button-screen.xml[tags=popup-button]
----

image::vcl/components/popup-icons.png[align="center"]

[TIP]
====
To add an action in Jmix Studio, select the `PopupButton` component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Action* button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

You can create the actions from scratch or use the actions already defined for any element in the current screen. In the example below, the `personsPopupButton` component uses actions defined in `personsTable`:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/popupbutton/popup-button-screen.xml[tags=persons-popup-button]
----

[[popup]]
=== popup

This element sets custom inner content for the `PopupButton`. Actions are ignored if a custom popup content is set.

Below is an example of a custom popup layout:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/popupbutton/popup-button-screen.xml[tags=custom-popup-button]
----

image::vcl/components/custom-popup-button.gif[align="center"]

[[attributes]]
== Attributes

[[auto-close]]
* `autoClose` - defines if the popup should be closed automatically after the action triggering.

[[close-popup-on-outside-click]]
* `closePopupOnOutsideClick` - if set to `true`, clicking outside the popup closes it. This does not affect clicking on the button itself.

[[menu-width]]
* `menuWidth` - sets the popup menu width.

[[show-action-icons]]
* `showActionIcons` - enables displaying icons for action buttons.

[[toggle-popup-visibility-on-click]]
* `togglePopupVisibilityOnClick` - defines whether a sequential click on the popup should toggle popup visibility.

[[popup-open-direction]]
* `popupOpenDirection` - sets the opening direction for the popup. Possible values:
** `BOTTOM_LEFT`
** `BOTTOM_RIGHT`
** `BOTTOM_CENTER`

[[popup-visibility]]
== Tracking Popup Visibility

You can track the popup visibility changes by subscribing to the corresponding event:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/popupbutton/PopupButtonScreen.java[tags=event]
----

Also, you can add a listener for this event using the component's API, for example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/popupbutton/PopupButtonScreen.java[tags=listener]
----

[[appearance]]
== Appearance

//todo add a link to theme extension
The `PopupButton` component's appearance can be customized using SCSS variables with `$jmix-popupbutton-*` prefix. You can change these variables in the visual editor after creating a theme extension or a xref:themes/custom_theme.adoc[custom theme].

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
<<auto-close, autoClose>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
<<close-popup-on-outside-click, closePopupOnOutsideClick>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<menu-width, menuWidth>> -
<<popup-open-direction, popupOpenDirection>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
<<show-action-icons, showActionIcons>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
<<toggle-popup-visibility-on-click, togglePopupVisibilityOnClick>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]
