content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/property-filter.adoc, before:

= PropertyFilter
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/property-filter.adoc

`PropertyFilter` is a component used for displaying a single filtering condition. The component is related to the xref:data-model:entities.adoc[entity] property and can automatically render a proper layout for setting a condition value.

The component can be used inside the `Filter` component and independently.

Component’s XML-name: `propertyFilter`.

== Basics

In the general case, `PropertyFilter` consists of a label with the entity property caption, operation label or selector (`=`, `contains`, `in`, `>`, etc.), and a field for editing a condition value.

image::vcl/components/property-filter.png[align="center"]

The example of the `propertyFilter` declaration is provided below.

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/propertyfilter/property-filter-screen.xml[tags=data-start;customers;data-end;layout-start;property-filter-simple;layout-end]
----

`dataLoader`, `property`, and `operation` are required attributes.

* `dataLoader` sets a DataLoader related to the current `PropertyFilter`.
[[property]]
* `property` contains the name of the entity attribute or properties path (for example, `name`, `order`, `order.date`).

You can use multiple `PropertyFilter` components in a screen. Components that have value are applied to the data loaders.

[[operation]]
== Condition Operations

`operation` is a required attribute. It sets a filtering operation. The operation can be of the following types:

* `EQUAL` is suitable for string, numeric, date, reference attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column matches the condition value in the filter.
* `NOT_EQUAL` is suitable for string, numeric, date, reference attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column does not match the condition value in the filter.
* `GREATER` is suitable for numeric and date attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is greater than the condition value in the filter.
* `GREATER_OR_EQUAL` is suitable for numeric and date attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is greater than or the same as the condition value in the filter.
* `LESS` is suitable for numeric and date attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is less than the condition value in the filter.
* `LESS_OR_EQUAL` is suitable for numeric and date attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is less than or the same as the condition value in the filter.
* `CONTAINS` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column has the condition value in the filter.
* `NOT_CONTAINS` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column does not contain the condition value in the filter.
* `STARTS_WITH` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column begins with the condition value in the filter.
* `ENDS_WITH` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column ends with the condition value in the filter.
* `IS_SET` is suitable for string, numeric, date, reference attributes. The operator tests only the data in the property column that are not null. The xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc[ComboBox] component, generated for this operation, displays two values: `true` and `false`. If the user selects `true`, results include only entity instances where there is data in the column. Otherwise, results include only entity instances where there is no data in the column.
* `IN_LIST` is suitable for string, numeric, date, reference attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column matches any list item.
* `NOT_IN_LIST` is suitable for string, numeric, date, reference attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column does not match any list item.
* `DATE_INTERVAL` is suitable for date attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column matches the values set in the <<date-conditions,Date interval editor>>.

`PropertyFilter` can automatically determine and display a condition value component based on the type of the corresponding entity property and the operation. For example, for string and numeric attributes, the application uses xref:vcl/components/text-field.adoc[TextField], for `Date` - xref:vcl/components/date-field.adoc[DateField], for enum values - xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc[ComboBox], for links to other entities - xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc[EntityPicker]. For the `IN_LIST` and `NOT_IN_LIST` the application uses the xref:vcl/components/values-picker.adoc[ValuesPicker] component.

[[using-custom-components]]
`PropertyFilter` also supports custom UI components for its value. You may describe UI component inside the `propertyFilter` tag.

For example, you can use xref:ui:vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc[EntityComboBox] instead of `EntityPicker`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/propertyfilter/property-filter-screen.xml[tags=data-start;customers;cities;data-end;layout-start;property-filter-custom-component;layout-end]
----

You can use `EntityPicker` with custom lookup screen, for example:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/propertyfilter/property-filter-screen.xml[tags=property-filter-custom-component2]
----

[[operation-caption-visible]]
The `operationCaptionVisible` attribute defines the visibility of the operation caption. Possible values are `true` and `false` (`true` by default).

[[operation-editable]]
Using the `operationEditable` attribute, you can set whether an operation selector is visible. Possible values are `true` and `false`. The default value is `false`. If you set `operationEditable = true`, the operation field enables selecting the condition operator in run-time. The list of available operators depends on the attribute type.

[[date-conditions]]
== Date Conditions

`PropertyFilter` has the `DATE_INTERVAL` operation. For this operation, the application uses the xref:vcl/components/value-picker.adoc[ValuePicker] component with the custom action. It enables to open dialog to configure the date interval.

image::vcl/components/date-interval-dialog.png[align="center"]

== Automatic Applying
[[auto-apply]]
The `autoApply` attribute sets whether the property filter should be automatically applied to the DataLoader when the condition value is changed. The default value is `true`.

== Managing Caption

[[caption]]
You can set the custom caption of the property filter condition using the `caption` attribute. If not specified, it is generated automatically based on the entity property caption and the operation caption (if the <<operation-caption-visible,operationCaptionVisible>> is set to `true`).

[WARNING]
====
If you set the `caption` attribute, the <<operation,operation>> label or selector will not be displayed.
====
[[caption-position]]
The `captionPosition` attribute defines the filter caption position: `TOP` or `LEFT`. The default value is `LEFT`.

[[caption-width]]
The `captionWidth` attribute specifies fixed caption width for `PropertyFilter`. Set `-1` to use auto size.

[[default-value]]
== Default Value

You can set the default value for the filter condition in the `defaultValue` attribute.

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/propertyfilter/property-filter-screen.xml[tags=property-filter-defaultValue]
----
[[parameter-name]]
== Parameter Name

The `parameterName` attribute sets the name of the associated query parameter name, used by condition. If not defined, then the parameter name is randomly generated.

== Support for KeyValueCollectionContainer

`PropertyFilter` can be bound to `KeyValueCollectionContainer`, for example:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/propertyfilter/property-filter-screen.xml[tags=data-start;key-value-collection;data-end;layout-start;property-filter-key-collection;layout-end]
----

`PropertyFilter` does not support key-value property that contains aggregate functions (`COUNT`, `SUM`, `AVG`, `MIN`, `MAX`).

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[context-help-icon-click-handler]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickHandler

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickHandler].

[[operation-change-event]]
=== OperationChangeEvent

The `OperationChangeEvent` is sent when the `operation` property is changed. Example of subscribing to the event for a `propertyFilter` defined in the screen XML with `hobbyFilter` id:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/propertyfilter/PropertyFilterScreen.java[tags=operation-change-event]
----

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addOperationChangeListener()` component method.

[[value-change-event]]
=== ValueChangeEvent

`ValueChangeEvent` is sent on the value changes when the user finished the value input, for example, after the *Enter* press or when the component loses focus. `ValueChangeEvent` has the following methods:

* `getPrevValue()` returns the value of the component before the change.
* `getValue()` method return the current value of the component.

Example of subscribing to the event for a `propertyFilter` defined in the screen XML with `hobbyFilter` id:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/propertyfilter/PropertyFilterScreen.java[tags=value-change-event]
----

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addValueChangeListener()` component method.

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
<<auto-apply,autoApply>> -
<<caption,caption>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
<<caption-position,captionPosition>> -
<<caption-width,captionWidth>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-loader[dataLoader] -
<<default-value,defaultValue>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<operation,operation>> -
<<operation-caption-visible,operationCaptionVisible>> -
<<operation-editable,operationEditable>> -
<<parameter-name,parameterName>> -
<<property,property>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

Commit message:

Update the Filter section, describe the use of dynamic attributes #191

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/property-filter.adoc, after:

= PropertyFilter
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/property-filter.adoc

`PropertyFilter` is a component used for displaying a single filtering condition. The component is related to the xref:data-model:entities.adoc[entity] property and can automatically render a proper layout for setting a condition value.

The component can be used inside the xref:ui:vcl/components/filter.adoc[Filter] component and independently.

Component’s XML-name: `propertyFilter`.

== Basics

In the general case, `PropertyFilter` consists of a label with the entity property caption, operation label or selector (`=`, `contains`, `in`, `>`, etc.), and a field for editing a condition value.

image::vcl/components/property-filter.png[align="center"]

The example of the `propertyFilter` declaration is provided below.

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/propertyfilter/property-filter-screen.xml[tags=data-start;customers;data-end;layout-start;property-filter-simple;layout-end]
----

`dataLoader`, `property`, and `operation` are required attributes.

* `dataLoader` sets a DataLoader related to the current `PropertyFilter`.
[[property]]
* `property` contains the name of the entity attribute or properties path (for example, `name`, `order`, `order.date`).
+
[NOTE]
====
You can use xref:dyn-attr:index.adoc[dynamic attributes], for example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::jmix:dyn-attr:example$/ex1/src/main/resources/dynattr/ex1/screen/car/car-browse-propf.xml[tags=filter]
----

It is not necessary to have a xref:dyn-attr:dynattr-view.adoc#using-dynamicattributes-facet[dynamicAttributes] facet on the screen.

Pay attention, if the dynamic attribute is an entity, then the entity's internal attributes will not be available for filtering.
====

You can use multiple `PropertyFilter` components in a screen. Components that have value are applied to the data loaders.

[[operation]]
== Condition Operations

`operation` is a required attribute. It sets a filtering operation. The operation can be of the following types:

* `EQUAL` is suitable for string, numeric, date, reference attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column matches the condition value in the filter.
* `NOT_EQUAL` is suitable for string, numeric, date, reference attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column does not match the condition value in the filter.
* `GREATER` is suitable for numeric and date attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is greater than the condition value in the filter.
* `GREATER_OR_EQUAL` is suitable for numeric and date attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is greater than or the same as the condition value in the filter.
* `LESS` is suitable for numeric and date attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is less than the condition value in the filter.
* `LESS_OR_EQUAL` is suitable for numeric and date attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column is less than or the same as the condition value in the filter.
* `CONTAINS` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column has the condition value in the filter.
* `NOT_CONTAINS` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column does not contain the condition value in the filter.
* `STARTS_WITH` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column begins with the condition value in the filter.
* `ENDS_WITH` is suitable for string attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column ends with the condition value in the filter.
* `IS_SET` is suitable for string, numeric, date, reference attributes. The operator tests only the data in the property column that are not null. The xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc[ComboBox] component, generated for this operation, displays two values: `true` and `false`. If the user selects `true`, results include only entity instances where there is data in the column. Otherwise, results include only entity instances where there is no data in the column.
* `IN_LIST` is suitable for string, numeric, date, reference attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column matches any list item.
* `NOT_IN_LIST` is suitable for string, numeric, date, reference attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column does not match any list item.
* `DATE_INTERVAL` is suitable for date attributes. Results include only entity instances where the data in the property column matches the values set in the <<date-conditions,Date interval editor>>.

`PropertyFilter` can automatically determine and display a condition value component based on the type of the corresponding entity property and the operation. For example, for string and numeric attributes, the application uses xref:vcl/components/text-field.adoc[TextField], for `Date` - xref:vcl/components/date-field.adoc[DateField], for enum values - xref:vcl/components/combo-box.adoc[ComboBox], for links to other entities - xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc[EntityPicker]. For the `IN_LIST` and `NOT_IN_LIST` the application uses the xref:vcl/components/values-picker.adoc[ValuesPicker] component.

[[using-custom-components]]
`PropertyFilter` also supports custom UI components for its value. You may describe UI component inside the `propertyFilter` tag.

For example, you can use xref:ui:vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc[EntityComboBox] instead of `EntityPicker`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/propertyfilter/property-filter-screen.xml[tags=data-start;customers;cities;data-end;layout-start;property-filter-custom-component;layout-end]
----

You can use `EntityPicker` with custom lookup screen, for example:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/propertyfilter/property-filter-screen.xml[tags=property-filter-custom-component2]
----

[[operation-caption-visible]]
The `operationCaptionVisible` attribute defines the visibility of the operation caption. Possible values are `true` and `false` (`true` by default).

[[operation-editable]]
Using the `operationEditable` attribute, you can set whether an operation selector is visible. Possible values are `true` and `false`. The default value is `false`. If you set `operationEditable = true`, the operation field enables selecting the condition operator in run-time. The list of available operators depends on the attribute type.

[[date-conditions]]
== Date Conditions

`PropertyFilter` has the `DATE_INTERVAL` operation. For this operation, the application uses the xref:vcl/components/value-picker.adoc[ValuePicker] component with the custom action. It enables to open dialog to configure the date interval.

image::vcl/components/date-interval-dialog.png[align="center"]

== Automatic Applying
[[auto-apply]]
The `autoApply` attribute sets whether the property filter should be automatically applied to the DataLoader when the condition value is changed. The default value is `true`.

== Managing Caption

[[caption]]
You can set the custom caption of the property filter condition using the `caption` attribute. If not specified, it is generated automatically based on the entity property caption and the operation caption (if the <<operation-caption-visible,operationCaptionVisible>> is set to `true`).

[WARNING]
====
If you set the `caption` attribute, the <<operation,operation>> label or selector will not be displayed.
====
[[caption-position]]
The `captionPosition` attribute defines the filter caption position: `TOP` or `LEFT`. The default value is `LEFT`.

[[caption-width]]
The `captionWidth` attribute specifies fixed caption width for `PropertyFilter`. Set `-1` to use auto size.

[[default-value]]
== Default Value

You can set the default value for the filter condition in the `defaultValue` attribute.

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/propertyfilter/property-filter-screen.xml[tags=property-filter-defaultValue]
----
[[parameter-name]]
== Parameter Name

The `parameterName` attribute sets the name of the associated query parameter name, used by condition. If not defined, then the parameter name is randomly generated.

== Support for KeyValueCollectionContainer

`PropertyFilter` can be bound to `KeyValueCollectionContainer`, for example:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/propertyfilter/property-filter-screen.xml[tags=data-start;key-value-collection;data-end;layout-start;property-filter-key-collection;layout-end]
----

`PropertyFilter` does not support key-value property that contains aggregate functions (`COUNT`, `SUM`, `AVG`, `MIN`, `MAX`).

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[context-help-icon-click-handler]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickHandler

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickHandler].

[[operation-change-event]]
=== OperationChangeEvent

The `OperationChangeEvent` is sent when the `operation` property is changed. Example of subscribing to the event for a `propertyFilter` defined in the screen XML with `hobbyFilter` id:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/propertyfilter/PropertyFilterScreen.java[tags=operation-change-event]
----

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addOperationChangeListener()` component method.

[[value-change-event]]
=== ValueChangeEvent

`ValueChangeEvent` is sent on the value changes when the user finished the value input, for example, after the *Enter* press or when the component loses focus. `ValueChangeEvent` has the following methods:

* `getPrevValue()` returns the value of the component before the change.
* `getValue()` method return the current value of the component.

Example of subscribing to the event for a `propertyFilter` defined in the screen XML with `hobbyFilter` id:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/propertyfilter/PropertyFilterScreen.java[tags=value-change-event]
----

Programmatic registration of the event handler: use the `addValueChangeListener()` component method.

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
<<auto-apply,autoApply>> -
<<caption,caption>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
<<caption-position,captionPosition>> -
<<caption-width,captionWidth>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#data-loader[dataLoader] -
<<default-value,defaultValue>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#editable[editable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<operation,operation>> -
<<operation-caption-visible,operationCaptionVisible>> -
<<operation-editable,operationEditable>> -
<<parameter-name,parameterName>> -
<<property,property>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required[required] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-message[requiredMessage] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]
