content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/related-entities.adoc, before:

= RelatedEntities
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/related-entities.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=relatedentities-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

The `RelatedEntities` component is a popup button with a drop-down list of classes related to the entity displayed in a table. Once the user selects the required entity class, a new browser screen is opened, containing the entity class instances related to the entity instances selected in the initial table.

image::vcl/components/related-entities.png[align="center"]

Component's XML name: `relatedEntities`.

[[basics]]
== Basics

Related entities are selected considering the user xref:security:resource-roles.adoc[permissions] for entities, entity attributes, and screens.

By default, the browser screen for the class selected in the drop-down is defined by convention (`<entity_name>.browse`). Optionally, you can specify the screen explicitly in the component.

[NOTE]
====
A browser screen with the list of related entities should contain the xref:vcl/components/filter.adoc[Filter] component.
====

A xref:vcl/components/filter.adoc#configuration[filter configuration] selecting records related to the selected entities is dynamically created in the browser window.

Example of using the component in a screen XML descriptor:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/relatedentities/related-entities-screen.xml[tags=table-start;related-entities;table-end]
----

image::vcl/components/related-entities.gif[align="center"]

== Attributes and Elements

[[attribute-for]]
The `for` attribute is required. It contains the identifier of the xref:vcl/components/table.adoc[Table], xref:vcl/components/data-grid.adoc[DataGrid], or xref:vcl/components/tree.adoc[Tree] component.

[[attribute-open-mode]]
The `openMode` attribute defines how a related screen will be opened. It corresponds to the `OpenMode` enumeration with the values: `NEW_TAB`, `THIS_TAB`, `DIALOG`, `NEW_WINDOW`. The entity browser is opened in the current tab by default.

[[attribute-exclude]]
The `exclude` attribute enables excluding some of the related entities from the drop-down list. The value of the property is a regular expression matching reference attributes to exclude.

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/relatedentities/related-entities-screen.xml[tags=table-start;related-entities-exclude;table-end]
----

[[element-property]]
The `property` element enables explicitly defining the related entity displayed in the drop-down list.

`property` attributes:

[[property-name]]
* `name` - the current entity attribute name, referencing the related entity. The `name` attribute is required.

[[property-screen]]
* `screen` - the string identifier of the browser screen that should be opened. By default, `RelatedEntities` opens a screen, having identifier in the format of `<entity_name>.browse`, for example, `demo_Order.browse`.

[[property-caption]]
* `caption` - the custom caption of the related entity displayed in the drop-down.

[[property-configuration-name]]
* `configurationName` - the custom name of the xref:vcl/components/filter.adoc#configuration[filter configuration] in the opened screen.

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/relatedentities/related-entities-screen.xml[tags=related-entities-property]
----

== Related Entities Support

The framework provides an API for opening related entities screens without the `RelatedEntities` component: the `RelatedEntitiesSupport` interface and  `RelatedEntitiesBuilder`.

The `RelatedEntitiesSupport` class creates a related screen builder.

[NOTE]
It is necessary to set `MetaClass` or entity class and property or `MetaProperty` to the builder.

Example of creating a screen with an entity class and a property:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/relatedentities/related-entities-screen.xml[tags=related-button]
----

[source, java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/relatedentities/RelatedEntitiesScreen.java[tags=autowired-related-entities-support;autowired-orders-table;related-click]
----

By default, the standard entity browser screen is opened. `RelatedEntitiesBuilder` provides a lot of methods to set optional parameters of the opened screen. For example, the following code creates a `Customer` browser with the `uiex1_Customer.browse-filter` id opened as a dialog:

[source, java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/relatedentities/RelatedEntitiesScreen.java[tags=autowired-related-entities-support;autowired-orders-table;related-btn-click]
----

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

=== RelatedEntities XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
<<attribute-exclude,exclude>> -
<<attribute-for,for>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<attribute-open-mode,openMode>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

=== RelatedEntities XML Element

<<element-property,property>>

=== Property XML Attributes

<<property-caption,caption>> -
<<property-configuration-name,configurationName>> -
<<property-name,name>> -
<<property-screen,screen>>

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/related-entities.adoc, after:

= RelatedEntities
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/related-entities.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=relatedentities-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

The `RelatedEntities` component is a popup button with a drop-down list of classes related to the entity displayed in a table. Once the user selects the required entity class, a new browser screen is opened, containing the entity class instances related to the entity instances selected in the initial table.

image::vcl/components/related-entities.png[align="center"]

Component's XML name: `relatedEntities`.

[[basics]]
== Basics

Related entities are selected considering the user xref:security:resource-roles.adoc[permissions] for entities, entity attributes, and screens.

By default, the browser screen for the class selected in the drop-down is defined by convention (`<entity_name>.browse`). Optionally, you can specify the screen explicitly in the component.

[NOTE]
====
A browser screen with the list of related entities should contain the xref:vcl/components/filter.adoc[Filter] component.
====

A xref:vcl/components/filter.adoc#configuration[filter configuration] selecting records related to the selected entities is dynamically created in the browser window.

Example of using the component in a screen XML descriptor:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/relatedentities/related-entities-screen.xml[tags=table-start;related-entities;table-end]
----

image::vcl/components/related-entities.gif[align="center"]

== Attributes and Elements

[[attribute-for]]
The `for` attribute is required. It contains the identifier of the xref:vcl/components/table.adoc[Table], xref:vcl/components/data-grid.adoc[DataGrid], or xref:vcl/components/tree.adoc[Tree] component.

[[attribute-open-mode]]
The `openMode` attribute defines how a related screen will be opened. It corresponds to the `OpenMode` enumeration with the values: `NEW_TAB`, `THIS_TAB`, `DIALOG`, `NEW_WINDOW`. The entity browser is opened in the current tab by default.

[[attribute-exclude]]
The `exclude` attribute enables excluding some of the related entities from the drop-down list. The value of the property is a regular expression matching reference attributes to exclude.

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/relatedentities/related-entities-screen.xml[tags=table-start;related-entities-exclude;table-end]
----

[[element-property]]
The `property` element enables explicitly defining the related entity displayed in the drop-down list.

`property` attributes:

[[property-name]]
* `name` - the current entity attribute name, referencing the related entity. The `name` attribute is required.

[[property-screen]]
* `screen` - the string identifier of the browser screen that should be opened. By default, `RelatedEntities` opens a screen, having identifier in the format of `<entity_name>.browse`, for example, `demo_Order.browse`.

[[property-caption]]
* `caption` - the custom caption of the related entity displayed in the drop-down.

[[property-configuration-name]]
* `configurationName` - the custom name of the xref:vcl/components/filter.adoc#configuration[filter configuration] in the opened screen.

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/relatedentities/related-entities-screen.xml[tags=related-entities-property]
----

[TIP]
====
To add `property` in Jmix Studio, select the `RelatedEntities` component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Property Option* button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

== Related Entities Support

The framework provides an API for opening related entities screens without the `RelatedEntities` component: the `RelatedEntitiesSupport` interface and  `RelatedEntitiesBuilder`.

The `RelatedEntitiesSupport` class creates a related screen builder.

[NOTE]
It is necessary to set `MetaClass` or entity class and property or `MetaProperty` to the builder.

Example of creating a screen with an entity class and a property:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/relatedentities/related-entities-screen.xml[tags=related-button]
----

[source, java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/relatedentities/RelatedEntitiesScreen.java[tags=autowired-related-entities-support;autowired-orders-table;related-click]
----

By default, the standard entity browser screen is opened. `RelatedEntitiesBuilder` provides a lot of methods to set optional parameters of the opened screen. For example, the following code creates a `Customer` browser with the `uiex1_Customer.browse-filter` id opened as a dialog:

[source, java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/relatedentities/RelatedEntitiesScreen.java[tags=autowired-related-entities-support;autowired-orders-table;related-btn-click]
----

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

=== RelatedEntities XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
<<attribute-exclude,exclude>> -
<<attribute-for,for>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<attribute-open-mode,openMode>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

=== RelatedEntities XML Element

<<element-property,property>>

=== Property XML Attributes

<<property-caption,caption>> -
<<property-configuration-name,configurationName>> -
<<property-name,name>> -
<<property-screen,screen>>
