content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/value-picker.adoc, before:

= ValuePicker
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/value-picker.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=valuepicker-actions" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

The `ValuePicker` component displays a value of any type. It consists of the text field and the set of buttons defined by actions.

`ValuePicker` is a base class for xref:vcl/components/values-picker.adoc[ValuesPicker], xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc[EntityPicker], xref:vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc[EntityComboBox].

Component's XML-name: `valuePicker`.

== Basics

`ValuePicker` can have a caption and both custom and predefined actions:

image::vcl/components/value-picker1.png[align="center"]

An example of defining `ValuePicker` with a xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] retrieved from localized messages and two <<actions,actions>>:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=valuePicker-1]
----

To create `ValuePicker` connected to data, use the `dataContainer` and `property` attributes:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=data;valuePicker]
----

In the example above, the screen defines the `userDc` data container for the `User` entity with the `login` attribute. In the `ValuePicker`, the `dataContainer` attribute contains a link to the `userDc` data container, and the `property` attribute includes the name of the `login` entity attribute.

[[fieldEditable]]
By default, a user cannot input the value manually. If you set the `fieldEditable` attribute to `true`, you enable manual input. Keep in mind the entered value is not set to the data model. To handle user input, use the `FieldValueChangeEvent` listener.

Look at the example below. We have the `User` entity with the `age` attribute. Let's define the `ageValuePicker` in the XML-descriptor with `fieldEditable="true"`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=fieldEditable-valuePicker]
----

Now the user can input the value manually. To handle this value, interpreted as String, subscribe to `FieldValueChangeEvent` in the controller:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/ValuePickerScreen.java[tags=integer-value-picker;field-value-change-event]
----

<1> Get the user input value as String.
<2> Set the parsed value to the `ageValuePicker`.

[[actions]]
== Actions

You can define custom and predefined actions for `ValuePicker` displayed as buttons on the right.
You can do it either in the XML descriptor using the `actions` nested element or programmatically in the controller using the `addAction()` method.

[[predefined-action]]
=== Predefined Action

[[clear-action]]
The framework provides only one predefined action - `value_clear`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=clearAction]
----
Use the `type` and `id` attributes for declaring predefined action in XML.

Use `addAction()` to set it programmatically:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/ValuePickerScreen.java[tags=add-clear-action;onInit-start;add-clear-action1;onInit-end]
----

[[custom-actions]]
=== Custom Actions

To define a custom action in XML, use the `actions` nested element. Specify the `id` and `icon` attributes for the `action`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=custom-action]
----

Then implement a custom logic in the screen controller by subscribing to `Action.ActionPerformedEvent`:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/ValuePickerScreen.java[tags=custom-action-handler]
----

<1> The `@Subscribe` annotation contains the `ValuePicker` `id` and the `id` of the action separated by a dot.

[[validators-element]]
== Validation

To check values entered into the `ValuePicker` component, you can use a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] in a nested `validators` element.

[[predefined-validators]]
The following predefined validators are available for `ValuePicker`:

* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#custom-validator[CustomValidator]
* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#not-null-validator[NotNullValidator]

In the example below, we will show a `NotNullValidator` usage for `countryValidField`:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitycombobox/entitycombobox-screen.xml[tags=validator]
----

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[context-help-icon-click-handler]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickHandler

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickHandler].

[[field-icon-provider]]
=== FieldIconProvider

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#field-icon-provider[FieldIconProvider].

[[field-value-change-event]]
=== FieldValueChangeEvent

See <<fieldEditable,FieldValueChangeEvent>>.

[[formatter]]
=== Formatter

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#formatter[Formatter].

[[validator]]
=== Validator

Adds a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] instance to the component. The `validator` must throw `ValidationException` if the value is not valid.

If you are not satisfied with the <<predefined-validators,predefined>> validators, add your own validator instance:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/combobox/ComboBoxScreen.java[tags=validator]
----

[[value-change-event]]
=== ValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#value-change-event[ValueChangeEvent].

[[xml]]
== ValuePicker XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
<<fieldEditable,fieldEditable>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#input-prompt[inputPrompt] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

== ValuePicker XML Elements

<<actions,actions>> -
xref:vcl/miscellaneous/formatter.adoc[formatter] -
<<validators-element,validator>>

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/value-picker.adoc, after:

= ValuePicker
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/value-picker.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=valuepicker-actions" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

The `ValuePicker` component displays a value of any type. It consists of the text field and the set of buttons defined by actions.

`ValuePicker` is a base class for xref:vcl/components/values-picker.adoc[ValuesPicker], xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc[EntityPicker], xref:vcl/components/entity-combo-box.adoc[EntityComboBox].

Component's XML-name: `valuePicker`.

== Basics

`ValuePicker` can have a caption and both custom and predefined actions:

image::vcl/components/value-picker1.png[align="center"]

An example of defining `ValuePicker` with a xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] retrieved from localized messages and two <<actions,actions>>:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=valuePicker-1]
----

To create `ValuePicker` connected to data, use the `dataContainer` and `property` attributes:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=data;valuePicker]
----

In the example above, the screen defines the `userDc` data container for the `User` entity with the `login` attribute. In the `ValuePicker`, the `dataContainer` attribute contains a link to the `userDc` data container, and the `property` attribute includes the name of the `login` entity attribute.

[[fieldEditable]]
By default, a user cannot input the value manually. If you set the `fieldEditable` attribute to `true`, you enable manual input. Keep in mind the entered value is not set to the data model. To handle user input, use the `FieldValueChangeEvent` listener.

Look at the example below. We have the `User` entity with the `age` attribute. Let's define the `ageValuePicker` in the XML-descriptor with `fieldEditable="true"`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=fieldEditable-valuePicker]
----

Now the user can input the value manually. To handle this value, interpreted as String, subscribe to `FieldValueChangeEvent` in the controller:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/ValuePickerScreen.java[tags=integer-value-picker;field-value-change-event]
----

<1> Get the user input value as String.
<2> Set the parsed value to the `ageValuePicker`.

[[actions]]
== Actions

You can define custom and predefined actions for `ValuePicker` displayed as buttons on the right.
You can do it either in the XML descriptor using the `actions` nested element or programmatically in the controller using the `addAction()` method.

[TIP]
====
To add `action` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#add-picker-action[Add] button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

[[predefined-action]]
=== Predefined Action

[[clear-action]]
The framework provides only one predefined action - `value_clear`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=clearAction]
----
Use the `type` and `id` attributes for declaring predefined action in XML.

Use `addAction()` to set it programmatically:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/ValuePickerScreen.java[tags=add-clear-action;onInit-start;add-clear-action1;onInit-end]
----

[[custom-actions]]
=== Custom Actions

To define a custom action in XML, use the `actions` nested element. Specify the `id` and `icon` attributes for the `action`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=custom-action]
----

Then implement a custom logic in the screen controller by subscribing to `Action.ActionPerformedEvent`:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuepicker/ValuePickerScreen.java[tags=custom-action-handler]
----

<1> The `@Subscribe` annotation contains the `ValuePicker` `id` and the `id` of the action separated by a dot.

[[validators-element]]
== Validation

To check values entered into the `ValuePicker` component, you can use a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] in a nested `validators` element.

[[predefined-validators]]
The following predefined validators are available for `ValuePicker`:

* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#custom-validator[CustomValidator]
* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#not-null-validator[NotNullValidator]

In the example below, we will show a `NotNullValidator` usage for `countryValidField`:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/entitycombobox/entitycombobox-screen.xml[tags=validator]
----

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[context-help-icon-click-handler]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickHandler

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickHandler].

[[field-icon-provider]]
=== FieldIconProvider

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#field-icon-provider[FieldIconProvider].

[[field-value-change-event]]
=== FieldValueChangeEvent

See <<fieldEditable,FieldValueChangeEvent>>.

[[formatter]]
=== Formatter

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#formatter[Formatter].

[[validator]]
=== Validator

Adds a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] instance to the component. The `validator` must throw `ValidationException` if the value is not valid.

If you are not satisfied with the <<predefined-validators,predefined>> validators, add your own validator instance:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/combobox/ComboBoxScreen.java[tags=validator]
----

[[value-change-event]]
=== ValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#value-change-event[ValueChangeEvent].

[[xml]]
== ValuePicker XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
<<fieldEditable,fieldEditable>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#input-prompt[inputPrompt] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

== ValuePicker XML Elements

<<actions,actions>> -
xref:vcl/miscellaneous/formatter.adoc[formatter] -
<<validators-element,validator>>
