content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/values-picker.adoc, before:

= ValuesPicker
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/values-picker.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=valuespicker-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

The `ValuesPicker` component works with a list of values of any type. It consists of the text field and the set of buttons defined by actions.

`ValuesPicker` is convenient to use if you need to edit the list of values through actions, not in the text field.

`ValuesPicker` is a base class for `TagPicker`. Has the same API as xref:vcl/components/value-picker.adoc[ValuePicker].

Component's XML-name: `valuesPicker`.

== Basics

`ValuesPicker` can have a caption, description, and both custom and predefined actions:

image::vcl/components/values-picker1.png[align="center"]

An example of defining `ValuesPicker` with a xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] retrieved from localized messages and two <<actions,actions>>:

[[values-picker-example1]]
[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuespicker/valuesPicker-screen.xml[tags=valuesPicker]
----

[[actions]]
== Actions

You can define custom and predefined actions for `ValuesPicker` displayed as buttons on the right.
You can do it either in the XML descriptor using the `actions` nested element or programmatically in the controller using the `addAction()` method.

[[predefined-actions]]
=== Predefined Actions

The framework provides `value_clear` and `values_select` predefined actions.

[[select-action]]
The `values_select` action sets a value to `ValuesPicker` using a value selection screen. The value selection screen generates a specific component to select or create a value depending on the passed value type.

The `values_select` action can be used to select any type of value, for example:

* Java types, like `String`, `Integer`, `Long`, `Double`, `BigDecimal`, `Date`, `LocalDate`, `LocalTime`, `LocalDateTime`, `OffsetTime`, `OffsetDateTime`, `Date`, `Time`, `UUID` and `java.sql.Date`, `java.sql.Time`.
+
[[java-class]]
Use the `javaClass` property to set the Java class used as the type of selected value.
+
In the <<values-picker-example1,previous>> example, the `values_select` action uses the `java.lang.String` Java type. When the user clicks on the value selection button, the *Select Value* screen appears. The user can create and add some value to a result list on this screen or remove a value from the list. The user can add a value either by clicking the *Add* button or by pressing *Enter*.
+
image::vcl/components/valuesPicker.gif[align="center"]
+
For the `UUID` Java type, `MaskedField` is generated on the *Select Value* screen.
+
For the date types, `DateField` is generated.
+
[[resolution]]
Use the `resolution` property to set the resolution of the `DateField` component:
+
[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuespicker/valuesPicker-screen.xml[tags=resolution]
----
+
[[timeZone]]
Use the `timeZone` property to set the time zone of the `DateField` component.
+
For the time types, `TimeField` is generated.
+
For other types, `TextField` is generated.

* xref:data-model:enumerations.adoc[Enum] values
+
[[enum-class]]
Use the `enumClass` property to set the enumeration class used as the type of selected value.
+
[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuespicker/valuesPicker-screen.xml[tags=valuesPicker-enum]
----
+
For enum values, `ComboBox` is generated on the *Select Value* screen.
+
image::vcl/components/values-picker-enum.png[align="center"]

* xref:data-model:entities.adoc[Entity] instances
+
[[entity-name]]
Use the `entityName` property to set the entity name used as the type of selected value.
+
[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuespicker/valuesPicker-screen.xml[tags=valuesPicker-entity]
----
+
[[use-combo-box]]
The `useComboBox` property specifies whether `ComboBox` should be used in the value selection screen. The default value is `false`.
+
[[lookup-screen-id]]
The `lookupScreenId` property sets the lookup screen id to be passed into the value selection screen to select entity values.

The value selection screen implements the `SelectValueController` interface.

[[select-value-screen-id]]
Use the `selectValueScreenId` property to set the id of a screen that implements the `SelectValueController` interface.

[[select-value-screen-class]]
Use the `selectValueScreenClass` property to set the class of a screen that implements the `SelectValueController` interface.

[[custom-actions]]
=== Custom Actions

Custom actions for `ValuesPicker` are similar to xref:vcl/components/value-picker.adoc#custom-actions[custom actions] for ValuePicker.

[[validators-element]]
== Validation

To check values entered into the `ValuesPicker` component, you can use a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] in a nested `validators` element.

[[predefined-validators]]
The following predefined validators are available for `ValuesPicker`:

* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#custom-validator[CustomValidator]
* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#not-empty-validator[NotEmptyValidator]
* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#not-null-validator[NotNullValidator]
* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#size-validator[SizeValidator]

In the example below, we will show a `SizeValidator` usage for `validatedCheckBoxGroup`:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/checkboxgroup/check-box-group-screen.xml[tags=validators]
----

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[context-help-icon-click-handler]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickHandler

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickHandler].

[[field-icon-provider]]
=== FieldIconProvider

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#field-icon-provider[FieldIconProvider].

[[field-value-change-event]]
=== FieldValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/components/value-picker.adoc#fieldEditable[FieldValueChangeEvent].

[[formatter]]
=== Formatter

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#formatter[Formatter].

[[validator]]
=== Validator

Adds a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] instance to the component. The `validator` must throw `ValidationException` if the value is not valid.

If you are not satisfied with the <<predefined-validators,predefined>> validators, add your own validator instance:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/checkboxgroup/CheckBoxGroupScreen.java[tags=validator]
----

[[value-change-event]]
=== ValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#value-change-event[ValueChangeEvent].

[[xml]]
== ValuesPicker XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/components/value-picker.adoc#fieldEditable[fieldEditable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#input-prompt[inputPrompt] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

== ValuesPicker XML Elements

<<actions,actions>> -
xref:vcl/miscellaneous/formatter.adoc[formatter] -
<<validators-element,validator>>

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/components/values-picker.adoc, after:

= ValuesPicker
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/components/values-picker.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=valuespicker-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

The `ValuesPicker` component works with a list of values of any type. It consists of the text field and the set of buttons defined by actions.

`ValuesPicker` is convenient to use if you need to edit the list of values through actions, not in the text field.

`ValuesPicker` is a base class for `TagPicker`. Has the same API as xref:vcl/components/value-picker.adoc[ValuePicker].

Component's XML-name: `valuesPicker`.

== Basics

`ValuesPicker` can have a caption, description, and both custom and predefined actions:

image::vcl/components/values-picker1.png[align="center"]

An example of defining `ValuesPicker` with a xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] retrieved from localized messages and two <<actions,actions>>:

[[values-picker-example1]]
[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuespicker/valuesPicker-screen.xml[tags=valuesPicker]
----

[[actions]]
== Actions

You can define custom and predefined actions for `ValuesPicker` displayed as buttons on the right.
You can do it either in the XML descriptor using the `actions` nested element or programmatically in the controller using the `addAction()` method.

[TIP]
====
To add `action` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#add-picker-action[Add] button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

[[predefined-actions]]
=== Predefined Actions

The framework provides `value_clear` and `values_select` predefined actions.

[[select-action]]
The `values_select` action sets a value to `ValuesPicker` using a value selection screen. The value selection screen generates a specific component to select or create a value depending on the passed value type.

The `values_select` action can be used to select any type of value, for example:

* Java types, like `String`, `Integer`, `Long`, `Double`, `BigDecimal`, `Date`, `LocalDate`, `LocalTime`, `LocalDateTime`, `OffsetTime`, `OffsetDateTime`, `Date`, `Time`, `UUID` and `java.sql.Date`, `java.sql.Time`.
+
[[java-class]]
Use the `javaClass` property to set the Java class used as the type of selected value.
+
In the <<values-picker-example1,previous>> example, the `values_select` action uses the `java.lang.String` Java type. When the user clicks on the value selection button, the *Select Value* screen appears. The user can create and add some value to a result list on this screen or remove a value from the list. The user can add a value either by clicking the *Add* button or by pressing *Enter*.
+
image::vcl/components/valuesPicker.gif[align="center"]
+
For the `UUID` Java type, `MaskedField` is generated on the *Select Value* screen.
+
For the date types, `DateField` is generated.
+
[[resolution]]
Use the `resolution` property to set the resolution of the `DateField` component:
+
[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuespicker/valuesPicker-screen.xml[tags=resolution]
----
+
[[timeZone]]
Use the `timeZone` property to set the time zone of the `DateField` component.
+
For the time types, `TimeField` is generated.
+
For other types, `TextField` is generated.

* xref:data-model:enumerations.adoc[Enum] values
+
[[enum-class]]
Use the `enumClass` property to set the enumeration class used as the type of selected value.
+
[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuespicker/valuesPicker-screen.xml[tags=valuesPicker-enum]
----
+
For enum values, `ComboBox` is generated on the *Select Value* screen.
+
image::vcl/components/values-picker-enum.png[align="center"]

* xref:data-model:entities.adoc[Entity] instances
+
[[entity-name]]
Use the `entityName` property to set the entity name used as the type of selected value.
+
[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/valuespicker/valuesPicker-screen.xml[tags=valuesPicker-entity]
----
+
[[use-combo-box]]
The `useComboBox` property specifies whether `ComboBox` should be used in the value selection screen. The default value is `false`.
+
[[lookup-screen-id]]
The `lookupScreenId` property sets the lookup screen id to be passed into the value selection screen to select entity values.

The value selection screen implements the `SelectValueController` interface.

[[select-value-screen-id]]
Use the `selectValueScreenId` property to set the id of a screen that implements the `SelectValueController` interface.

[[select-value-screen-class]]
Use the `selectValueScreenClass` property to set the class of a screen that implements the `SelectValueController` interface.

[[custom-actions]]
=== Custom Actions

Custom actions for `ValuesPicker` are similar to xref:vcl/components/value-picker.adoc#custom-actions[custom actions] for ValuePicker.

[[validators-element]]
== Validation

To check values entered into the `ValuesPicker` component, you can use a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] in a nested `validators` element.

[[predefined-validators]]
The following predefined validators are available for `ValuesPicker`:

* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#custom-validator[CustomValidator]
* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#not-empty-validator[NotEmptyValidator]
* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#not-null-validator[NotNullValidator]
* xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc#size-validator[SizeValidator]

In the example below, we will show a `SizeValidator` usage for `validatedCheckBoxGroup`:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/component/checkboxgroup/check-box-group-screen.xml[tags=validators]
----

[[handlers]]
== Events and Handlers

include::../events-hanlers-generation-tip.adoc[]

[[context-help-icon-click-handler]]
=== ContextHelpIconClickHandler

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#context-help-icon-click-handler[ContextHelpIconClickHandler].

[[field-icon-provider]]
=== FieldIconProvider

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#field-icon-provider[FieldIconProvider].

[[field-value-change-event]]
=== FieldValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/components/value-picker.adoc#fieldEditable[FieldValueChangeEvent].

[[formatter]]
=== Formatter

See xref:vcl/components/entity-picker.adoc#formatter[Formatter].

[[validator]]
=== Validator

Adds a xref:vcl/miscellaneous/validator.adoc[validator] instance to the component. The `validator` must throw `ValidationException` if the value is not valid.

If you are not satisfied with the <<predefined-validators,predefined>> validators, add your own validator instance:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/component/checkboxgroup/CheckBoxGroupScreen.java[tags=validator]
----

[[value-change-event]]
=== ValueChangeEvent

See xref:vcl/api.adoc#value-change-event[ValueChangeEvent].

[[xml]]
== ValuesPicker XML Attributes

include::../xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/components/value-picker.adoc#fieldEditable[fieldEditable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#input-prompt[inputPrompt] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

== ValuesPicker XML Elements

<<actions,actions>> -
xref:vcl/miscellaneous/formatter.adoc[formatter] -
<<validators-element,validator>>
