content/modules/backoffice-ui/pages/vcl/components/value-picker.adoc, before:

= ValuePicker

//Здесь стОит подробнее объяснить, зачем нужен этот компонент. В чем выгода использовать именно его, а не TextField. В каком конкретном случае данный компонент может пригодиться. Раз он у нас объявлен публично в xsd, конечный пользователь должен понимать, в каком случае ему нужно пользоваться именно этим компонентом. Так как фразу "The ValuePicker displays a value of any type" мы может сказать и относительно компонента TextField.
The `ValuePicker` component displays a value of any type. It consists of the text field and the set of buttons defined by actions.

Component's XML-name: `valuePicker`.

== Basics

`ValuePicker` can have a `caption` and both custom and predefined `actions`:

image::vcl/components/value-picker1.png[align="center"]

An example of defining the `ValuePicker` with a xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] retrieved from localized messages and two <<actions,actions>>:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/sample/screen/component/valuePicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=valuePicker-1]
----

To create a `ValuePicker` connected to data, use the `dataContainer` and `property` attributes:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/sample/screen/component/valuePicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=data;valuePicker]
----

In the example above, the screen defines the `userDc` data container for the `User` entity with the `login` attribute. In the `ValuePicker`, the `dataContainer` attribute contains a link to the `userDc` data container, and the `property` attribute includes a name of the `login` entity attribute.

[[fieldEditable]]
By default, a user cannot input the value manually. If you set the `fieldEditable` attribute to `true`, you enable manual input. Keep in mind the entered value is not set to the data model. To handle user input, use the `FieldValueChangeEvent` listener.

[[actions]]
== Actions

You can define custom and predefined actions for the `ValuePicker` displayed as buttons on the right.
You can do it either in the XML descriptor using the `actions` nested element or programmatically in the controller using the `addAction()` method.

[[predefined-action]]
=== Predefined Action

The framework provides only one predefined action - `clear`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/sample/screen/component/valuePicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=clearAction]
----
Use the `type` and `id` attributes for declaring predefined action in XML.

Use `addAction()` to set it programmatically:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/sample/screen/component/valuePicker/ValuePickerScreen.java[tags=add-clear-action;add-clear-action1]
----

[[custom-action]]
=== Custom Actions

To define a custom action in XML, use the `actions` nested element. Specify the `id` and `icon` attributes for the `action`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/sample/screen/component/valuePicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=custom-action]
----

Then implement a custom logic in the screen controller by subscribing to `Action.ActionPerformedEvent`:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/sample/screen/component/valuePicker/ValuePickerScreen.java[tags=custom-action-handler]
----

<1> The `@Subscribe` annotation contains the `ValuePicker` `id` and the `id` of the action separated by a dot.

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#captionAsHtml[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#descriptionAsHtml[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box.expandRatio[box.expandRatio] -
<<fieldEditable,fieldEditable>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#htmlSanitizerEnabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

Commit message:

Document ValuePicker/ValuesPicker components #9 Some errors have been corrected in the ValuePicker

content/modules/backoffice-ui/pages/vcl/components/value-picker.adoc, after:

= ValuePicker

`ValuePicker` is a base class for `ValuesPicker`, `EntityPicker`, `EntityComboBox`.

The `ValuePicker` component displays a value of any type. It consists of the text field and the set of buttons defined by actions.

Component's XML-name: `valuePicker`.

== Basics

`ValuePicker` can have a `caption` and both custom and predefined `actions`:

image::vcl/components/value-picker1.png[align="center"]

An example of defining a `ValuePicker` with a xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] retrieved from localized messages and two <<actions,actions>>:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/sample/screen/component/valuepicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=valuePicker-1]
----

To create a `ValuePicker` connected to data, use the `dataContainer` and `property` attributes:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/sample/screen/component/valuepicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=data;valuePicker]
----

In the example above, the screen defines the `userDc` data container for the `User` entity with the `login` attribute. In the `ValuePicker`, the `dataContainer` attribute contains a link to the `userDc` data container, and the `property` attribute includes the name of the `login` entity attribute.

[[fieldEditable]]
By default, a user cannot input the value manually. If you set the `fieldEditable` attribute to `true`, you enable manual input. Keep in mind the entered value is not set to the data model. To handle user input, use the `FieldValueChangeEvent` listener.

Look at the example below. We have the `User` entity with the `age` attribute. Let's define the `ageValuePicker` in the XML-descriptor with `fieldEditable="true"`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/sample/screen/component/valuepicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=fieldEditable-valuePicker]
----

Now the user can input the value manually. To handle this value, interpreted as String, subscribe to the `FieldValueChangeEvent` in the controller:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/sample/screen/component/valuepicker/ValuePickerScreen.java[tags=integer-value-picker;field-value-change-event]
----

<1> Get the user input value as String.
<2> Set the parsed value to the `ageValuePicker`.

[[actions]]
== Actions

You can define custom and predefined actions for the `ValuePicker` displayed as buttons on the right.
You can do it either in the XML descriptor using the `actions` nested element or programmatically in the controller using the `addAction()` method.

[[predefined-action]]
=== Predefined Action

The framework provides only one predefined action - `clear`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/sample/screen/component/valuepicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=clearAction]
----
Use the `type` and `id` attributes for declaring predefined action in XML.

Use `addAction()` to set it programmatically:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/sample/screen/component/valuepicker/ValuePickerScreen.java[tags=add-clear-action;add-clear-action1]
----

[[custom-action]]
=== Custom Actions

To define a custom action in XML, use the `actions` nested element. Specify the `id` and `icon` attributes for the `action`:

[source, xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/sample/screen/component/valuepicker/valuePicker-screen.xml[tags=custom-action]
----

Then implement a custom logic in the screen controller by subscribing to `Action.ActionPerformedEvent`:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/sample/screen/component/valuepicker/ValuePickerScreen.java[tags=custom-action-handler]
----

<1> The `@Subscribe` annotation contains the `ValuePicker` `id` and the `id` of the action separated by a dot.

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#captionAsHtml[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#descriptionAsHtml[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box.expandRatio[box.expandRatio] -
<<fieldEditable,fieldEditable>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#htmlSanitizerEnabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tabIndex[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]
