content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/containers/accordion.adoc, before:

= Accordion
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/containers/accordion.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=accordion-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`Accordion` is a container for collapsible content that allows you to toggle between hiding and showing a large amount of content.

image::vcl/containers/accordion.gif[align="center"]

Component's XML-name: `accordion`.

[[basics]]
== Basics

Use `Accordion` container if the application page is limited in space or the tab title is too long to be displayed in the xref:vcl/containers/tab-sheet.adoc[TabSheet].

The `accordion` component should contain nested `tab` elements describing tabs. Each `tab` is a container with a vertical component's layout similar to xref:vcl/containers/box-layout.adoc#vbox[vbox]. You can learn more about the `tab` element on the xref:vcl/containers/tab-sheet.adoc[] page.

You can put any xref:vcl/components.adoc[component] or xref:vcl/containers.adoc[container] in the tab element. To demonstrate a simple `accordion`, let's add labels to each tab:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/accordion/accordion-screen.xml[tags=simple-accordion]
----

image::vcl/containers/accordion-simple.gif[align="center"]

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/containers/tab-sheet.adoc#tab-caption-as-html[tabCaptionsAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/containers/tab-sheet.adoc#tabs-visible[tabsVisible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/containers/accordion.adoc, after:

= Accordion
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/containers/accordion.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=accordion-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`Accordion` is a container for collapsible content that allows you to toggle between hiding and showing a large amount of content.

image::vcl/containers/accordion.gif[align="center"]

Component's XML-name: `accordion`.

[[basics]]
== Basics

Use `Accordion` container if the application page is limited in space or the tab title is too long to be displayed in the xref:vcl/containers/tab-sheet.adoc[TabSheet].

The `accordion` component should contain nested `tab` elements describing tabs. Each `tab` is a container with a vertical component's layout similar to xref:vcl/containers/box-layout.adoc#vbox[vbox]. You can learn more about the `tab` element on the xref:vcl/containers/tab-sheet.adoc[] page.

[TIP]
====
To add `tab` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Tab* button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

You can put any xref:vcl/components.adoc[component] or xref:vcl/containers.adoc[container] in the tab element. To demonstrate a simple `accordion`, let's add labels to each tab:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/accordion/accordion-screen.xml[tags=simple-accordion]
----

image::vcl/containers/accordion-simple.gif[align="center"]

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/containers/tab-sheet.adoc#tab-caption-as-html[tabCaptionsAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
xref:vcl/containers/tab-sheet.adoc#tabs-visible[tabsVisible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]
