content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/containers/tab-sheet.adoc, before:

= TabSheet
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/containers/tab-sheet.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=tabsheet-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`TabSheet` is a container that allows switching between the components with tabs. The tabs are organized as a tab bar at the top of the `TabSheet`. Clicking on a tab opens its contained component in the main display area of the layout. If there are more tabs than fit in the tab bar, navigation buttons will appear.

image::vcl/containers/tab-sheet.gif[align="center"]

Component's XML-name: `tabSheet`.

[[basics]]
== Basics

Usage example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/tabsheet/tab-sheet-screen.xml[tags=tab-sheet]
----

`TabSheet` component should contain nested `tab` elements describing tabs. Each `tab` is a container with a vertical component's layout similar to xref:vcl/containers/box-layout.adoc#vbox[vbox].

[[tab-sheet-attributes]]
== TabSheet Attributes

[[tab-caption-as-html]]
* `tabCaptionsAsHtml` - defines whether HTML is allowed in the `tab` captions. Possible values:
** `true` - the captions are rendered in the browser as HTML, and the developer is responsible for ensuring no harmful HTML is used.
** `false` - by default. The content is rendered in the browser as plain text.

[[tabs-visible]]
* `tabsVisible` - sets whether the tab selection part should be shown in the UI. Possible values:
** `true` - by default
** `false`

[[tab-element-attributes]]
== Tab Element Attributes

* `closable` - defines whether the button for closing the `tab` is displayed. The default value is `false`.
* `id` - sets an identifier of the tab
+
[NOTE]
====
Please note that tabs are not components, and their IDs are used only within a `TabSheet` to work with tabs from the controller.
====
+
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption]
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description]
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable]
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#expand[expand]
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon]
* <<lazy-loading-tab-content, lazy>>
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#margin[margin]
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#spacing[spacing]
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename]
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible]

[[styles]]
== TabSheet Styles

* `centered-tabs` - centers the tabs inside the tab bar. It works best if all the tabs fit entirely in the tab bar, without scrolling.
* `compact-tabbar` - reduces the whitespace around the tabs in the tab bar.
* `equal-width-tabs` - gives an equal amount of space to all tabs in the tab bar. The tab captions will be truncated if they do not fit into the tab. Tab scrolling will be disabled, and all tabs will be visible simultaneously.
* `framed` - adds a border around the whole component and individual tabs in the tab bar.
* `icons-on-top` - displays tab icons on top of the tab captions. Вy default, the icons are placed on the left side of the caption.
* `only-selected-closable` - only the selected tab has the close button visible. It does not prevent closing the tab programmatically; it only hides the button from the user.
* `padded-tabbar` - adds a small amount of padding around the tabs in the tab bar so that they don’t touch the outer edges of the component.

//todo add a link to theme extension
The appearance of the `TabSheet` can be customized using SCSS variables with `$jmix-tabsheet-*` prefix. You can change these variables in the visual editor after creating a theme extension or a xref:themes/custom_theme.adoc[custom theme].

[[lazy-loading-tab-content]]
== Lazy Loading Tab Content

By default, tabs are not lazy, which means that all their content is loaded when a screen is opened.

To enable lazy loading for `tab` content, you should set the `lazy` attribute of the `tab` element to `true`.

Lazy tabs do not load their content when the screen is opened. This approach reduces the number of components in memory. Components within a `tab` are loaded only when a user selects the `tab`.

[NOTE]
====

//todo add link to getComponent() method
Please note that the components located on a lazy `tab` do not exist when the screen is opened. Therefore they cannot be added to the controller and cannot be obtained by invoking `getComponent()` in the controller's `init()` method. The lazy `tab` components can be accessed only after the user opens the `tab`. You can subscribe to `SelectedTabChangeEvent` to catch user's selection.

====

For example, let's create a `TabSheet` with a single lazy `tab`. To understand what state the lazy `tab` content is in, we will use label with `id="info"`.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/tabsheet/tab-sheet-screen.xml[tags=lazy-tab]
----

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/containers/tabsheet/TabSheetScreen.java[tags=lazy-tab]
----

In the example above, at the time of screen initialization, the `checkComponents()` method is called. Because `label2` is in the lazy `tab`, we can't get `label2` using the `getComponentNN()` method. But when the user selects `tab2`, `SelectedTabChangeEvent` is triggered, and we get into the `checkComponents()` method again, and now we can get the `label2` value, specified in the XML.

image::vcl/containers/tab-sheet-lazy-tab.gif[align="center"]

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
<<tab-caption-as-html, tabCaptionsAsHtml>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
<<tabs-visible, tabsVisible>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/vcl/containers/tab-sheet.adoc, after:

= TabSheet
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:vcl/containers/tab-sheet.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=tabsheet-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`TabSheet` is a container that allows switching between the components with tabs. The tabs are organized as a tab bar at the top of the `TabSheet`. Clicking on a tab opens its contained component in the main display area of the layout. If there are more tabs than fit in the tab bar, navigation buttons will appear.

image::vcl/containers/tab-sheet.gif[align="center"]

Component's XML-name: `tabSheet`.

[[basics]]
== Basics

Usage example:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/tabsheet/tab-sheet-screen.xml[tags=tab-sheet]
----

`TabSheet` component should contain nested `tab` elements describing tabs. Each `tab` is a container with a vertical component's layout similar to xref:vcl/containers/box-layout.adoc#vbox[vbox].

[TIP]
====
To add `tab` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Tab* button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

[[tab-sheet-attributes]]
== TabSheet Attributes

[[tab-caption-as-html]]
* `tabCaptionsAsHtml` - defines whether HTML is allowed in the `tab` captions. Possible values:
** `true` - the captions are rendered in the browser as HTML, and the developer is responsible for ensuring no harmful HTML is used.
** `false` - by default. The content is rendered in the browser as plain text.

[[tabs-visible]]
* `tabsVisible` - sets whether the tab selection part should be shown in the UI. Possible values:
** `true` - by default
** `false`

[[tab-element-attributes]]
== Tab Element Attributes

* `closable` - defines whether the button for closing the `tab` is displayed. The default value is `false`.
* `id` - sets an identifier of the tab
+
[NOTE]
====
Please note that tabs are not components, and their IDs are used only within a `TabSheet` to work with tabs from the controller.
====
+
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption]
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description]
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable]
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#expand[expand]
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon]
* <<lazy-loading-tab-content, lazy>>
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#margin[margin]
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#spacing[spacing]
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename]
* xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible]

[[styles]]
== TabSheet Styles

* `centered-tabs` - centers the tabs inside the tab bar. It works best if all the tabs fit entirely in the tab bar, without scrolling.
* `compact-tabbar` - reduces the whitespace around the tabs in the tab bar.
* `equal-width-tabs` - gives an equal amount of space to all tabs in the tab bar. The tab captions will be truncated if they do not fit into the tab. Tab scrolling will be disabled, and all tabs will be visible simultaneously.
* `framed` - adds a border around the whole component and individual tabs in the tab bar.
* `icons-on-top` - displays tab icons on top of the tab captions. Вy default, the icons are placed on the left side of the caption.
* `only-selected-closable` - only the selected tab has the close button visible. It does not prevent closing the tab programmatically; it only hides the button from the user.
* `padded-tabbar` - adds a small amount of padding around the tabs in the tab bar so that they don’t touch the outer edges of the component.

//todo add a link to theme extension
The appearance of the `TabSheet` can be customized using SCSS variables with `$jmix-tabsheet-*` prefix. You can change these variables in the visual editor after creating a theme extension or a xref:themes/custom_theme.adoc[custom theme].

[[lazy-loading-tab-content]]
== Lazy Loading Tab Content

By default, tabs are not lazy, which means that all their content is loaded when a screen is opened.

To enable lazy loading for `tab` content, you should set the `lazy` attribute of the `tab` element to `true`.

Lazy tabs do not load their content when the screen is opened. This approach reduces the number of components in memory. Components within a `tab` are loaded only when a user selects the `tab`.

[NOTE]
====

//todo add link to getComponent() method
Please note that the components located on a lazy `tab` do not exist when the screen is opened. Therefore they cannot be added to the controller and cannot be obtained by invoking `getComponent()` in the controller's `init()` method. The lazy `tab` components can be accessed only after the user opens the `tab`. You can subscribe to `SelectedTabChangeEvent` to catch user's selection.

====

For example, let's create a `TabSheet` with a single lazy `tab`. To understand what state the lazy `tab` content is in, we will use label with `id="info"`.

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/containers/tabsheet/tab-sheet-screen.xml[tags=lazy-tab]
----

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/containers/tabsheet/TabSheetScreen.java[tags=lazy-tab]
----

In the example above, at the time of screen initialization, the `checkComponents()` method is called. Because `label2` is in the lazy `tab`, we can't get `label2` using the `getComponentNN()` method. But when the user selects `tab2`, `SelectedTabChangeEvent` is triggered, and we get into the `checkComponents()` method again, and now we can get the `label2` value, specified in the XML.

image::vcl/containers/tab-sheet-lazy-tab.gif[align="center"]

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
<<tab-caption-as-html, tabCaptionsAsHtml>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#tab-index[tabIndex] -
<<tabs-visible, tabsVisible>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]
