content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/layouts/tabSheet.adoc, before:

= tabSheet

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/tabsheet-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

A layout that creates several tabs with content. Only the content of the selected tab is visible at a time.

[cols="1h,6", grid=none]
|===
|XML Element
|`tabSheet`
|Java Class
|`JmixTabSheet`
|Attributes
|xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#alignSelf[alignSelf] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
<<theme-variants, themeNames>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]
|Handlers
|xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
<<selected-change-event, SelectedChangeEvent>>
|Elements
|<<tab-element, tab>>
|===

== Basics

To create the component, use `tabSheet` XML element and add several <<tab-element, tab>> elements. Each `tab` can only have one child component. If you need to include multiple components within a tab, you must wrap them with a layout component, such as xref:flow-ui:vc/layouts/vbox.adoc[].

The following example demonstrates how a basic `tabSheet` is created:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/layout/tabsheet/tabsheet-view.xml[tags=basics]
----

image::visual-components/layouts/tabsheet-basic.png[align="center", width="310"]

[[tab-element]]
== Tab Element

The contents of an individual tab is described by the `tab` element.

TIP: To add `tab` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the view descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Tab* button in the *Component Inspector* panel.

[cols="1h,6", grid=none]
|===
|XML Element
|`tab`
|Java Class
|`Tab`
|Attributes
|xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#ariaLabel[ariaLabel] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#ariaLabelledBy[ariaLabelledBy] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#flexGrow[flexGrow] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
<<lazy-loading, lazy>> -
<<theme-variants, themeNames>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible]
|Handlers
|xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent]
| Elements
|xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip]
|===

== Number of Tabs

The `tabSheet` component can have any practical number of tabs. To adapt to the available space the component will add scroll buttons, ensuring that all tabs remain accessible to users.

image::visual-components/layouts/tabsheet-tabs-number.png[align="center", width="500"]

== States

Tab state allows users to easily determine which tab is currently active and which tabs may be temporarily unavailable or disabled. A `tab` can be selected, unselected, or disabled.

image::visual-components/components/tabs-states.png[align="center", width="316"]

== Custom Labels

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/tabsheet-icons" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

Tab labels are not limited to just text. You can include almost any components through programmatic definition.

image::visual-components/layouts/tabsheet-labels.png[align="center", width="400"]

== Badges

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/tabsheet-badges" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

One particularly useful case is adding dynamic badges to tab labels. Such badges can provide an indication of the quantity of items, notifications, or other information related to the tab's contents.

image::visual-components/layouts/tabsheet-badges.png[align="center", width="400"]

[[selected-change-event]]
== Detect Tab Switch

Whenever the user switches between tabs, the `io.jmix.flowui.component.tabsheet.JmixTabSheet.SelectedChangeEvent` is fired. Create an event handler to execute custom code in response to the tab switch.

The following code will send a notification on every tab switch:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/layout/tabsheet/TabSheetView.java[tags=change-event;notify-on-switch]
----

[[lazy-loading]]
== Lazy Loading

A tab can be configured to load its content lazily, meaning the content is only loaded when a user selects that specific tab. This reduces the number of components in memory.

To enable lazy loading, set the `lazy` attribute of the tab element to `true`:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/layout/tabsheet/tabsheet-view.xml[tags=lazy-loading]
----

== Lazy Tab's Content

Components inside a lazy tab do not exist when the view is opened, so they cannot be injected into a controller or obtained by invoking `getComponent()` in the controller's `init()` method. You can access these components only after the user opens the tab by using a <<selected-change-event, SelectedChangeEvent>> handler.

In the following example the second tab set to lazy loading, and its content is loaded only when the user selects it. The current number of components in each tab is displayed using a supplementary `span` element.

image::visual-components/layouts/tabsheet-lazy.gif[align="center", width="234"]

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/layout/tabsheet/TabSheetView.java[tags=onInit;change-event;lazy-loading]
----

[[theme-variants]]
== Theme Variants

The component's appearance is customizable with the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] attribute, which allows you to select among six different options:

.`centered`
[%collapsible]
====
Positions the tabs at the center of the container or view, instead of their default left-aligned position:

image::visual-components/components/tabs-centered.png[align="center", width=610]
====

.`small`
[%collapsible]
====
Makes the tabs smaller:

image:visual-components/components/tabs-small.png[align="center", width=366]
====

.`minimal`
[%collapsible]
====
Reduces visual style to only show tab labels without any additional visual elements:

image:visual-components/components/tabs-minimal.png[align="center", width=394]
====

.`hide-scroll-buttons`
[%collapsible]
====
Hides the scroll buttons that assist in navigating overflown tabs:

image:visual-components/components/tabs-hide-scroll-buttons.png[align="center", width=394]

====

.`equal-width-tabs`
[%collapsible]
====
Allocates an equal amount of space to each tab and disables the ability to scroll:

image:visual-components/components/tabs-equal-width.png[align="center", width=538]
====

.`bordered`
[%collapsible]
====
Adds a border around the tabs themselves, as well as the content area.

image:visual-components/layouts/tabsheet-bordered.png[align="center", width=400]
====

== See Also

See https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/components/tabs[Vaadin Docs^] for more information.

Commit message:

Fix lazy tabs section, update What's New

content/modules/flow-ui/pages/vc/layouts/tabSheet.adoc, after:

= tabSheet

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/tabsheet-simple" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

A layout that creates several tabs with content. Only the content of the selected tab is visible at a time.

[cols="1h,6", grid=none]
|===
|XML Element
|`tabSheet`
|Java Class
|`JmixTabSheet`
|Attributes
|xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#alignSelf[alignSelf] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxHeight[maxHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#maxWidth[maxWidth] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minHeight[minHeight] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#minWidth[minWidth] -
<<theme-variants, themeNames>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#width[width]
|Handlers
|xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent] -
<<selected-change-event, SelectedChangeEvent>>
|Elements
|<<tab-element, tab>>
|===

== Basics

To create the component, use `tabSheet` XML element and add several <<tab-element, tab>> elements. Each `tab` can only have one child component. If you need to include multiple components within a tab, you must wrap them with a layout component, such as xref:flow-ui:vc/layouts/vbox.adoc[].

The following example demonstrates how a basic `tabSheet` is created:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/layout/tabsheet/tabsheet-view.xml[tags=basics]
----

image::visual-components/layouts/tabsheet-basic.png[align="center", width="310"]

[[tab-element]]
== Tab Element

The contents of an individual tab is described by the `tab` element.

TIP: To add `tab` in Jmix Studio, select the component in the view descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Tab* button in the *Component Inspector* panel.

[cols="1h,6", grid=none]
|===
|XML Element
|`tab`
|Java Class
|`Tab`
|Attributes
|xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#id[id] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#ariaLabel[ariaLabel] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#ariaLabelledBy[ariaLabelledBy] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#classNames[classNames] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#enabled[enabled] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#flexGrow[flexGrow] -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#label[label] -
<<lazy-loading, lazy>> -
<<theme-variants, themeNames>> -
xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#visible[visible]
|Handlers
|xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#AttachEvent[AttachEvent] -
xref:vc/common-handlers.adoc#DetachEvent[DetachEvent]
| Elements
|xref:vc/components/tooltip.adoc[tooltip]
|===

== Number of Tabs

The `tabSheet` component can have any practical number of tabs. To adapt to the available space the component will add scroll buttons, ensuring that all tabs remain accessible to users.

image::visual-components/layouts/tabsheet-tabs-number.png[align="center", width="500"]

== States

Tab state allows users to easily determine which tab is currently active and which tabs may be temporarily unavailable or disabled. A `tab` can be selected, unselected, or disabled.

image::visual-components/components/tabs-states.png[align="center", width="316"]

== Custom Labels

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/tabsheet-icons" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

Tab labels are not limited to just text. You can include almost any components through programmatic definition.

image::visual-components/layouts/tabsheet-labels.png[align="center", width="400"]

== Badges

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/ui-samples/sample/tabsheet-badges" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

One particularly useful case is adding dynamic badges to tab labels. Such badges can provide an indication of the quantity of items, notifications, or other information related to the tab's contents.

image::visual-components/layouts/tabsheet-badges.png[align="center", width="400"]

[[selected-change-event]]
== Detect Tab Switch

Whenever the user switches between tabs, the `io.jmix.flowui.component.tabsheet.JmixTabSheet.SelectedChangeEvent` is fired. Create an event handler to execute custom code in response to the tab switch.

The following code will send a notification on every tab switch:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/layout/tabsheet/TabSheetView.java[tags=change-event;notify-on-switch]
----

[[lazy-tabs]]
== Lazy Tabs

A tab can be configured to load its content lazily, meaning the content is only loaded when a user selects that specific tab. This reduces the number of components in memory.

To enable lazy loading, set the `lazy` attribute of the tab element to `true`:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/resources/com/company/onboarding/view/layout/tabsheet/tabsheet-view.xml[tags=lazy-loading]
----

Components inside a lazy tab do not exist when the view is opened, so they cannot be injected into a controller or obtained in the view lifecycle event handlers. You can access these components only after the user opens the tab. The <<selected-change-event, SelectedChangeEvent>> handler allows you to detect which tab has been selected and access the components using the `UiComponentUtils.getComponent()` method.

In the following example the second tab is set to lazy loading, and its content is loaded only when the user selects it. The current number of components in each tab is displayed using a supplementary `span` element.

image::visual-components/layouts/tabsheet-lazy.gif[align="center", width="234"]

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/onboarding/src/main/java/com/company/onboarding/view/layout/tabsheet/TabSheetView.java[tags=onInit;change-event;lazy-loading]
----

[[theme-variants]]
== Theme Variants

The component's appearance is customizable with the xref:vc/common-attributes.adoc#themeNames[themeNames] attribute, which allows you to select among six different options:

.`centered`
[%collapsible]
====
Positions the tabs at the center of the container or view, instead of their default left-aligned position:

image::visual-components/components/tabs-centered.png[align="center", width=610]
====

.`small`
[%collapsible]
====
Makes the tabs smaller:

image:visual-components/components/tabs-small.png[align="center", width=366]
====

.`minimal`
[%collapsible]
====
Reduces visual style to only show tab labels without any additional visual elements:

image:visual-components/components/tabs-minimal.png[align="center", width=394]
====

.`hide-scroll-buttons`
[%collapsible]
====
Hides the scroll buttons that assist in navigating overflown tabs:

image:visual-components/components/tabs-hide-scroll-buttons.png[align="center", width=394]

====

.`equal-width-tabs`
[%collapsible]
====
Allocates an equal amount of space to each tab and disables the ability to scroll:

image:visual-components/components/tabs-equal-width.png[align="center", width=538]
====

.`bordered`
[%collapsible]
====
Adds a border around the tabs themselves, as well as the content area.

image:visual-components/layouts/tabsheet-bordered.png[align="center", width=400]
====

== See Also

See https://vaadin.com/docs/latest/components/tabs[Vaadin Docs^] for more information.
