content/modules/deployment/pages/basic.adoc, before:

= Basic Deployment

[[bootJar]]
== Creating Executable JAR

In Jmix Studio, open the *Gradle* tool window and double-click *Tasks -> build -> bootJar*.

In the command line, use the following command:

[source,shell script]
----
./gradlew bootJar
----

The executable JAR name will consist of the name and the version of your project. For example, if you specified the following in your `settings.gradle`:

[source]
----
rootProject.name = 'myapp'
----

and in your `build.gradle`:

[source]
----
group = 'com.company'
version = '0.0.1-SNAPSHOT'
----

then the JAR name will be `myapp-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar`.

The executable JAR file is created in the `/build/libs` folder. You can copy it anywhere and run as follows:

[source,shell script]
----
java -jar myapp-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
----

If you want to customize the packaging process or create a deployable WAR file, refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/{spring-boot-version}/gradle-plugin/reference/htmlsingle/#packaging-executable[Spring Boot Documentation^].

[[bootBuildImage]]
== Creating Docker Image

In Jmix Studio, open the *Gradle* tool window and double-click *Tasks -> build -> bootBuildImage* task.

In the command line, use the following command:

[source,shell script]
----
./gradlew bootBuildImage
----

By default, the image will be created with the name of your project and tag which is equal to you project's version.

For example, if you specified the following in your `settings.gradle`:

[source]
----
rootProject.name = 'myapp'
----

and in your `build.gradle`:

[source]
----
group = 'com.company'
version = '0.0.1-SNAPSHOT'
----

then the created image will be `myapp:0.0.1-SNAPSHOT`.

You can find more information on image generation and customization in the link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/{spring-boot-version}/gradle-plugin/reference/htmlsingle/#build-image[Spring Boot Documentation^].

[[bootWar]]
== Deploying WAR

If you want to build a WAR file for deployment to an application server, follow these steps:

. Make sure your main application class extends `SpringBootServletInitializer`, for example:
+
[source,java]
----
@SpringBootApplication
public class MyApplication extends SpringBootServletInitializer {
    // ...
}
----

. Add the `war` plugin to the `plugins` section of your `build.gradle` file:
+
[source]
----
plugins {
    // ...
    id 'war'
}
----

. Reload Gradle project either by clicking *Load Gradle Changes* button in a popup at the right side of the editor window or clicking *Reload All Gradle Projects* in the *Gradle* tool window.

. Open the *Gradle* tool window and double-click *Tasks -> build -> bootWar*, or use the following command:
+
[source,shell script]
----
./gradlew bootWar
----

The WAR file is created in the `/build/libs` folder. The file name is generated as described in the <<bootJar,previous section>>.

IMPORTANT: You will not be able to run Jmix applications on Tomcat 10 because it does not support Java EE 8 (`javax.\*` namespace) and requires Jakarta EE 9 (`jakarta.*`), see https://tomcat.apache.org/migration-10.html#Specification_APIs[Tomcat documentation^] for details. Use the latest Tomcat 9 to deploy Jmix WAR.

[[jndi-data-source]]
=== Using JNDI Data Source

When deploying your application as a WAR, you can use a JNDI data source provided by the application server to externalize connection settings.

See below how to configure the main `DataSource` of your application for development and production environments using the Spring's https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/{spring-boot-version}/reference/html/features.html#features.profiles[profiles^] feature.

. In your main application class, add `@Profile("!prod")` annotation to `dataSourceProperties` and `dataSource` methods to make sure these beans are created only in development environment:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
@Profile("!prod")
@Bean
@Primary
@ConfigurationProperties("main.datasource")
DataSourceProperties dataSourceProperties() {
    return new DataSourceProperties();
}

@Profile("!prod")
@Bean
@Primary
@ConfigurationProperties("main.datasource.hikari")
DataSource dataSource(DataSourceProperties dataSourceProperties) {
    return dataSourceProperties.initializeDataSourceBuilder().build();
}
----

. Add a method creating a `DataSource` bean for the production environment:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
@Profile("prod")
@Bean(name = "dataSource")
@Primary
DataSource prodDataSource(ApplicationContext context) {
    JndiDataSourceLookup lookup = new JndiDataSourceLookup();
    DataSource dataSource = lookup.getDataSource("java:comp/env/jdbc/demo"); // <1>

    // to avoid org.springframework.jmx.export.UnableToRegisterMBeanException:
    for (MBeanExporter mbeanExporter : context.getBeansOfType(MBeanExporter.class).values()) {
        if (JmxUtils.isMBean(((Object) dataSource).getClass())) {
            mbeanExporter.addExcludedBean("dataSource");
        }
    }

    return dataSource;
}
----
<1> JNDI name of the data source provided by the application server.

. When running the application server, set active profile to `prod` in `spring.profiles.active` application property.

Below is an example of configuring Tomcat 9 for deploying a `demo.war` application.

. Copy `demo.war` to `tomcat/webapps` folder.

. Create `tomcat/bin/setenv.sh` file with the following content:
+
[source,shell script]
----
CATALINA_OPTS="-Dspring.profiles.active=prod"
----

. Create `tomcat/conf/Catalina/localhost/demo.xml` file defining the data source and set appropriate database connection parameters:
+
[source,xml]
----
<Context>
    <Resource type="javax.sql.DataSource"
              name="jdbc/demo"
              driverClassName="org.postgresql.Driver"
              url="jdbc:postgresql://localhost/demo"
              username="root"
              password="root"
              maxIdle="2"
              maxTotal="20"
              maxWaitMillis="5000"
    />
</Context>
----
+
Notice that the `name` attribute of the `Resource` element defines the JNDI name used in the `JndiDataSourceLookup.getDataSource()` method when creating the `DataSource` bean.

. Copy an appropriate JDBC driver file (for example, `postgresql-42.2.9.jar`) to `tomcat/lib`.

When you start Tomcat, the application will use the data source defined in the `tomcat/conf/Catalina/localhost/demo.xml` file.

Commit message:

Explain how to build JAR/WAR in project with FlowUI

content/modules/deployment/pages/basic.adoc, after:

= Basic Deployment

[[bootJar]]
== Creating Executable JAR

In Jmix Studio, open the *Gradle* tool window and double-click *Tasks -> build -> bootJar*.

In the command line, use the following command:

[source,shell script]
----
./gradlew bootJar
----

To create the executable JAR file in the project with xref:flow-ui:index.adoc[Flow UI], set the `vaadin.productionMode` property:

[source,shell script]
----
./gradlew -Pvaadin.productionMode=true bootJar
----

The executable JAR name will consist of the name and the version of your project. For example, if you specified the following in your `settings.gradle`:

[source]
----
rootProject.name = 'myapp'
----

and in your `build.gradle`:

[source]
----
group = 'com.company'
version = '0.0.1-SNAPSHOT'
----

then the JAR name will be `myapp-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar`.

The executable JAR file is created in the `/build/libs` folder. You can copy it anywhere and run as follows:

[source,shell script]
----
java -jar myapp-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
----

If you want to customize the packaging process or create a deployable WAR file, refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/{spring-boot-version}/gradle-plugin/reference/htmlsingle/#packaging-executable[Spring Boot Documentation^].

[[bootBuildImage]]
== Creating Docker Image

In Jmix Studio, open the *Gradle* tool window and double-click *Tasks -> build -> bootBuildImage* task.

In the command line, use the following command:

[source,shell script]
----
./gradlew bootBuildImage
----

By default, the image will be created with the name of your project and tag which is equal to you project's version.

For example, if you specified the following in your `settings.gradle`:

[source]
----
rootProject.name = 'myapp'
----

and in your `build.gradle`:

[source]
----
group = 'com.company'
version = '0.0.1-SNAPSHOT'
----

then the created image will be `myapp:0.0.1-SNAPSHOT`.

You can find more information on image generation and customization in the link:https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/{spring-boot-version}/gradle-plugin/reference/htmlsingle/#build-image[Spring Boot Documentation^].

[[bootWar]]
== Deploying WAR

If you want to build a WAR file for deployment to an application server, follow these steps:

. Make sure your main application class extends `SpringBootServletInitializer`, for example:
+
[source,java]
----
@SpringBootApplication
public class MyApplication extends SpringBootServletInitializer {
    // ...
}
----

. Add the `war` plugin to the `plugins` section of your `build.gradle` file:
+
[source]
----
plugins {
    // ...
    id 'war'
}
----

. Reload Gradle project either by clicking *Load Gradle Changes* button in a popup on the right side of the editor window or clicking *Reload All Gradle Projects* in the *Gradle* tool window.

. Open the *Gradle* tool window and double-click *Tasks -> build -> bootWar*, or use the following command:
+
[source,shell script]
----
./gradlew bootWar
----
+
To create the WAR file in the project with xref:flow-ui:index.adoc[Flow UI], set the `vaadin.productionMode` property:
+
[source,shell script]
----
./gradlew -Pvaadin.productionMode=true bootWar
----

The WAR file is created in the `/build/libs` folder. The file name is generated as described in the <<bootJar,previous section>>.

IMPORTANT: You will not be able to run Jmix applications on Tomcat 10 because it does not support Java EE 8 (`javax.\*` namespace) and requires Jakarta EE 9 (`jakarta.*`), see https://tomcat.apache.org/migration-10.html#Specification_APIs[Tomcat documentation^] for details. Use the latest Tomcat 9 to deploy Jmix WAR.

[[jndi-data-source]]
=== Using JNDI Data Source

When deploying your application as a WAR, you can use a JNDI data source provided by the application server to externalize connection settings.

See below how to configure the main `DataSource` of your application for development and production environments using the Spring's https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/{spring-boot-version}/reference/html/features.html#features.profiles[profiles^] feature.

. In your main application class, add `@Profile("!prod")` annotation to `dataSourceProperties` and `dataSource` methods to make sure these beans are created only in development environment:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
@Profile("!prod")
@Bean
@Primary
@ConfigurationProperties("main.datasource")
DataSourceProperties dataSourceProperties() {
    return new DataSourceProperties();
}

@Profile("!prod")
@Bean
@Primary
@ConfigurationProperties("main.datasource.hikari")
DataSource dataSource(DataSourceProperties dataSourceProperties) {
    return dataSourceProperties.initializeDataSourceBuilder().build();
}
----

. Add a method creating a `DataSource` bean for the production environment:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
@Profile("prod")
@Bean(name = "dataSource")
@Primary
DataSource prodDataSource(ApplicationContext context) {
    JndiDataSourceLookup lookup = new JndiDataSourceLookup();
    DataSource dataSource = lookup.getDataSource("java:comp/env/jdbc/demo"); // <1>

    // to avoid org.springframework.jmx.export.UnableToRegisterMBeanException:
    for (MBeanExporter mbeanExporter : context.getBeansOfType(MBeanExporter.class).values()) {
        if (JmxUtils.isMBean(((Object) dataSource).getClass())) {
            mbeanExporter.addExcludedBean("dataSource");
        }
    }

    return dataSource;
}
----
<1> JNDI name of the data source provided by the application server.

. When running the application server, set active profile to `prod` in `spring.profiles.active` application property.

Below is an example of configuring Tomcat 9 for deploying a `demo.war` application.

. Copy `demo.war` to `tomcat/webapps` folder.

. Create `tomcat/bin/setenv.sh` file with the following content:
+
[source,shell script]
----
CATALINA_OPTS="-Dspring.profiles.active=prod"
----

. Create `tomcat/conf/Catalina/localhost/demo.xml` file defining the data source and set appropriate database connection parameters:
+
[source,xml]
----
<Context>
    <Resource type="javax.sql.DataSource"
              name="jdbc/demo"
              driverClassName="org.postgresql.Driver"
              url="jdbc:postgresql://localhost/demo"
              username="root"
              password="root"
              maxIdle="2"
              maxTotal="20"
              maxWaitMillis="5000"
    />
</Context>
----
+
Notice that the `name` attribute of the `Resource` element defines the JNDI name used in the `JndiDataSourceLookup.getDataSource()` method when creating the `DataSource` bean.

. Copy an appropriate JDBC driver file (for example, `postgresql-42.2.9.jar`) to `tomcat/lib`.

When you start Tomcat, the application will use the data source defined in the `tomcat/conf/Catalina/localhost/demo.xml` file.
