content/modules/reports/pages/creation/bands.adoc, before:

= Bands

The *Bands* tab contains the important element of the report data structure - band hierarchy.

image::bands.png[align="center",width="1079"]

A report band has the following parameters:

* *Name* - unique band name within the report. It must contain only Latin letters, numbers, and underscores. Moreover, if the band name starts with *header*, its data will not be printed in the xref:creation/templates.adoc#table_output[table output].
* *Orientation* - band orientation: *Horizontal*, *Vertical* or xref:sample-reports.adoc#crosstab_xls[Crosstab].
** Horizontal - bands are copied downwards, may contain sub-bands
** Vertical - bands are copied to the right
** Crosstab - bands are copied to the right and downwards as a matrix.
* *Parent* - parent band.
* *Multiple Datasets* - select this checkbox if you need more than one dataset.
* *Dataset type* - <<dataset_types,the type>> of dataset.

Each band includes one or more datasets. When running a report, datasets are transformed into lists of rows, where each row contains a map of name-value pairs. A band appears in the report as many times as the number of rows in its longest dataset.

Field names can be used in the report template and will be replaced with corresponding values from the dataset when the report is produced. When describing datasets, you can use xref:creation/parameters.adoc[report external parameters] and fields from other bands - this allows creation of linked bands.

Each report has the *Root* band. You can create datasets in it and refer to their fields from other bands, but you cannot use the *Root* band in the report template.

The *Dataset name* column value is used for user convenience only.

[[dataset_types]]
== Dataset Types

[[structure_sql]]
=== SQL Dataset

*SQL* dataset is produced as a result of SQL query execution. It is recommended to use aliases for query result fields using the `as` operator. It is also recommended to enclose the aliases in double quotes to prevent possible case conversion by the DBMS:

[source, sql,indent=0]
----
select u.name as "userName", u.login as "userLogin"
from user_ u
----

You can use report input parameters and parent bands fields in the query. Parameters should be addressed by name enclosed in `${}`, for example, `++${dateFrom}++`. Parent band fields should be addressed similarly, by adding the band name in front of the field name: `${band1.field1}`.

Below is an example of an SQL query with a `groupId` parameter, obtained from the `group` parent band and an external `enabled` parameter:

[source, sql,indent=0]
----
select u.name as "userName", u.login as "userLogin"
from user_ u
where u.group_id = ${group.groupId}
    and u.active = ${active}
    and u.deleted_date is null
----

[CAUTION]
====
You should manually include conditions to filter soft deleted records for SQL queries.
====

[[link_field]]
Merge multiple datasets::
+
--
The *Link field* is used to merge data from multiple datasets inside one band. It can be used when the whole data for the report row could not be received by a single query or a Groovy script.
--

[[data_store]]
Selecting data store::
+
--
By default, queries are executed on the main database. If you want to query an xref:data-model:data-stores.adoc#additional[additional data store], set its name in the *Data store* field.
--

[[query_preprocessing]]
Query preprocessing in bands::
+
--
If you need to modify the SQL/JPQL query dynamically depending on the report input parameters or the parameter values from the parent band, you can use the SQL preprocessing. The template engine enables you to modify SQL/JPQL queries using Groovy. In order to activate it, check the *Preprocess query as Groovy template* checkbox below the band editor. The resulting query will be processed by `GStringTemplateEngine` that will have access to:

* the report parameters: `${<parameter_name>}`,

* values from parent bands: `${<band_name>.<parameter_name>}`.

Let's consider the following example: depending on whether the `createTs2` report parameter is passed you need to select one of the query conditions: `e.create_ts < $\{createTs2\}` or `e.create_ts < current_timestamp`.

In this case, the query should look like this:

[source, sql,indent=0]
----
select e.create_ts, e.id, e.vin from ref_car e
where
e.create_ts >= ${createTs1}
and
<% out << (createTs2 != null  ? 'e.create_ts < ${createTs2}' : 'e.create_ts < current_timestamp')%>
----

Thus, if the `createTs2` parameter is not passed, the initial query will be transformed into the following resulting query:

[source, sql,indent=0]
----
select e.create_ts, e.id, e.vin from ref_car e
where
e.create_ts >= ${createTs1}
and
e.create_ts < current_timestamp
----

If `createTs2` is passed, the following resulting query will be used for the band:

[source, sql,indent=0]
----
select e.create_ts, e.id, e.vin from ref_car e
where
e.create_ts >= ${createTs1}
and
e.create_ts < ${createTs2}
----
--

[[structure_jpql]]
=== JPQL Dataset

*JPQL* dataset is produced as a result of JPQL query execution. The resulted query fields must have aliases provided using the `as` operator. Similar to SQL query, you can use report input parameters and parent bands fields in the JPQL query.

Below is an example of a JPQL query with a `groupId` parameter, obtained from the `group` parent band and an external `enabled` parameter:

[source, jpql,indent=0]
----
select u.name as userName, u.login as userLogin
from User u
where u.group.id = ${group.groupId}
    and u.active = ${active}
----

JPQL queries automatically support soft deletion and return only records that are not deleted.

You can also use *Link field* to <<link_field,merge multiple datasets>>, use *Data store* to <<data_store,query additional data store>> or activate <<query_preprocessing,query preprocessing>> by checking the *Preprocess query as Groovy template* checkbox below the band editor.

[[structure_groovy]]
=== Groovy Dataset

*Groovy* dataset is produced as a result of Groovy script execution. The script returns an object of the `List<Map<String, Object>>` type. Each element of this list - an object of the `Map<String, Object>` type - corresponds to one dataset record.

The following objects are passed into the script:

* `params` - external report parameters map. Below is an example to get a parameter value:
+
[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
def active = params['active']
----

* `parentBand` - parent band as an object of the `io.jmix.reports.yarg.structure.BandData` type. This object allows you to get a parent band field value by invoking the `getParameterValue()` method, for example:
+
[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
def groupId = parentBand.getParameterValue('groupId')
----

* `currentAuthentication` - an object of the `io.jmix.core.security.CurrentAuthentication` type associated with the currently authenticated user. For example:
+
[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
def user = currentAuthentication.getUser()
----

* `metadata` - an object of the `io.jmix.core.Metadata` type, providing access the application metadata. For example:
+
[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
def metaClass = metadata.getClass('User')
----

* `dataManager` - an object of the `io.jmix.core.DataManager` type that provides CRUD functionality. For example:
+
[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
def book = dataManager.load(Book.class).id(bookId).fetchPlan("book.edit").one()
----

* `timeSource` - an object of the `io.jmix.core.TimeSource` type used to obtain the current time. For example:
+
[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
def currentDate = timeSource.currentTimestamp()
----

* `applicationContext` - an object of the `org.springframework.context.ApplicationContext` type that provides access to managed beans. For example:
+
[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
def accountService = applicationContext.getBean(AccountService);
----

[[structure_entity]]
=== Entity Dataset

*Entity* dataset consists of a single row and is produced using attributes of a single JPA entity instance and the entities related to it.

The data source is produced from an external parameter of the *Entity* type, which must be described in the *Parameters* tab. The value in the *Entity parameter name* field must match the parameter name.

The report template must contain fields with entity attribute names. Attribute names can use names in the existing fetch plan by checking *Use existing fetch plan* or can be selected by the *Select entity attributes* button.

[CAUTION]
====
As the reporting engine always reloads entities in the *Entity* dataset from the database, you cannot use it for DTO entities or JPA entity instances not saved to the database. Instead, use the <<structure_groovy,Groovy dataset>> and access the entity passed as a parameter in the following way:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
def entity = params['entity']

return [['title': entity.title,
        'description': entity.description]]
----
====

[[structure_list]]
=== List of Entities Dataset

*List of entities* dataset is produced using a list of JPA entity instances.

The data source is produced using an external parameter being a *List of entities*, which must be described in the *Parameters* tab. The value in the *List of entities parameter name* field must match the parameter alias.

The report template must contain fields with entity attribute names. Attribute names can use names in the existing fetch plan by checking *Use existing fetch plan* or can be selected by the *Select entity attributes* button.

[CAUTION]
====
As the reporting engine always reloads entities in the *List of entities* dataset from the database, you cannot use it for DTO entities or JPA entity instances not saved to the database. Instead, use the <<structure_groovy,Groovy dataset>> and access the list of entities passed as a parameter in the following way:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
return params['entities'].collect {[
    'title': it.title,
    'description': it.description
]}
----
====

[[structure_json]]
=== JSON Dataset

*JSON* dataset is generated from JSON data. This data can be received from the following sources:

. *Groovy script*
+
--
The script provided by the user is supposed to return JSON data as a string.

For example:

[source, json,indent=0]
----
include::example$/library/src/main/resources/com/company/library/reports/bands/json.groovy[]
----
--

. *URL*
+
--
The report engine will perform a GET HTTP query against the URL.

For example:

[source, plain,indent=0]
----
https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users
----
--

. *Parameter*
+
--
The report external parameter of String type which contains the JSON data must be described in the *Parameters* tab.
--

The received JSON tree is queried using the JsonPath query. For example, you can use the `$.store.book[*]` JsonPath to return all books from the following JSON tree:

[source, json,indent=0]
----
include::example$/library/src/main/resources/com/company/library/reports/bands/json.json[]
----

For more details on JsonPath expressions, see the http://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/[documentation^].

[CAUTION]
====
Fields outputted by the report that have `Date`, `DateTime`, or `Time` data types do not support the format defined by `java.text.SimpleDateFormat`. To set the correct format, you should write a Groovy script.

To do this, switch to the **Value formats** tab of the report detail view and open the xref:creation/value-formats.adoc[formatter] dialog. For example, for the field `bookPublication.dateTime` Groovy-script will look like this:

[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
include::example$/library/src/main/resources/com/company/library/reports/bands/formatter_for_dates.groovy[]
----
====

Commit message:

Mention that security constraints are not applied for JPQL dataset in reports #418

content/modules/reports/pages/creation/bands.adoc, after:

= Bands

The *Bands* tab contains the important element of the report data structure - band hierarchy.

image::bands.png[align="center",width="1079"]

A report band has the following parameters:

* *Name* - unique band name within the report. It must contain only Latin letters, numbers, and underscores. Moreover, if the band name starts with *header*, its data will not be printed in the xref:creation/templates.adoc#table_output[table output].
* *Orientation* - band orientation: *Horizontal*, *Vertical* or xref:sample-reports.adoc#crosstab_xls[Crosstab].
** Horizontal - bands are copied downwards, may contain sub-bands
** Vertical - bands are copied to the right
** Crosstab - bands are copied to the right and downwards as a matrix.
* *Parent* - parent band.
* *Multiple Datasets* - select this checkbox if you need more than one dataset.
* *Dataset type* - <<dataset_types,the type>> of dataset.

Each band includes one or more datasets. When running a report, datasets are transformed into lists of rows, where each row contains a map of name-value pairs. A band appears in the report as many times as the number of rows in its longest dataset.

Field names can be used in the report template and will be replaced with corresponding values from the dataset when the report is produced. When describing datasets, you can use xref:creation/parameters.adoc[report external parameters] and fields from other bands - this allows creation of linked bands.

Each report has the *Root* band. You can create datasets in it and refer to their fields from other bands, but you cannot use the *Root* band in the report template.

The *Dataset name* column value is used for user convenience only.

[[dataset_types]]
== Dataset Types

[[structure_sql]]
=== SQL Dataset

*SQL* dataset is produced as a result of SQL query execution. It is recommended to use aliases for query result fields using the `as` operator. It is also recommended to enclose the aliases in double quotes to prevent possible case conversion by the DBMS:

[source, sql,indent=0]
----
select u.name as "userName", u.login as "userLogin"
from user_ u
----

You can use report input parameters and parent bands fields in the query. Parameters should be addressed by name enclosed in `${}`, for example, `++${dateFrom}++`. Parent band fields should be addressed similarly, by adding the band name in front of the field name: `${band1.field1}`.

Below is an example of an SQL query with a `groupId` parameter, obtained from the `group` parent band and an external `enabled` parameter:

[source, sql,indent=0]
----
select u.name as "userName", u.login as "userLogin"
from user_ u
where u.group_id = ${group.groupId}
    and u.active = ${active}
    and u.deleted_date is null
----

[CAUTION]
====
You should manually include conditions to filter soft deleted records for SQL queries.
====

[[link_field]]
Merge multiple datasets::
+
--
The *Link field* is used to merge data from multiple datasets inside one band. It can be used when the whole data for the report row could not be received by a single query or a Groovy script.
--

[[data_store]]
Selecting data store::
+
--
By default, queries are executed on the main database. If you want to query an xref:data-model:data-stores.adoc#additional[additional data store], set its name in the *Data store* field.
--

[[query_preprocessing]]
Query preprocessing in bands::
+
--
If you need to modify the SQL/JPQL query dynamically depending on the report input parameters or the parameter values from the parent band, you can use the SQL preprocessing. The template engine enables you to modify SQL/JPQL queries using Groovy. In order to activate it, check the *Preprocess query as Groovy template* checkbox below the band editor. The resulting query will be processed by `GStringTemplateEngine` that will have access to:

* the report parameters: `${<parameter_name>}`,

* values from parent bands: `${<band_name>.<parameter_name>}`.

Let's consider the following example: depending on whether the `createTs2` report parameter is passed you need to select one of the query conditions: `e.create_ts < $\{createTs2\}` or `e.create_ts < current_timestamp`.

In this case, the query should look like this:

[source, sql,indent=0]
----
select e.create_ts, e.id, e.vin from ref_car e
where
e.create_ts >= ${createTs1}
and
<% out << (createTs2 != null  ? 'e.create_ts < ${createTs2}' : 'e.create_ts < current_timestamp')%>
----

Thus, if the `createTs2` parameter is not passed, the initial query will be transformed into the following resulting query:

[source, sql,indent=0]
----
select e.create_ts, e.id, e.vin from ref_car e
where
e.create_ts >= ${createTs1}
and
e.create_ts < current_timestamp
----

If `createTs2` is passed, the following resulting query will be used for the band:

[source, sql,indent=0]
----
select e.create_ts, e.id, e.vin from ref_car e
where
e.create_ts >= ${createTs1}
and
e.create_ts < ${createTs2}
----
--

[[structure_jpql]]
=== JPQL Dataset

*JPQL* dataset is produced as a result of JPQL query execution. The resulted query fields must have aliases provided using the `as` operator. Similar to SQL query, you can use report input parameters and parent bands fields in the JPQL query.

Below is an example of a JPQL query with a `groupId` parameter, obtained from the `group` parent band and an external `enabled` parameter:

[source, jpql,indent=0]
----
select u.name as userName, u.login as userLogin
from User u
where u.group.id = ${group.groupId}
    and u.active = ${active}
----

JPQL queries automatically support soft deletion and return only records that are not deleted.

[IMPORTANT]
====
When using a JPQL query as a data source for a report, please note that the query is executed directly against the database and bypasses xref:data-access:data-manager.adoc[DataManager]. This means that the system's regular xref:security:authorization.adoc#data-access-checks[data access security checks] (row-level and resource) are *not applied automatically*. You must ensure that your JPQL queries only retrieve data that the user is authorized to access. It is your responsibility to implement any necessary security checks in your queries.
====

You can also use *Link field* to <<link_field,merge multiple datasets>>, use *Data store* to <<data_store,query additional data store>> or activate <<query_preprocessing,query preprocessing>> by checking the *Preprocess query as Groovy template* checkbox below the band editor.

[[structure_groovy]]
=== Groovy Dataset

*Groovy* dataset is produced as a result of Groovy script execution. The script returns an object of the `List<Map<String, Object>>` type. Each element of this list - an object of the `Map<String, Object>` type - corresponds to one dataset record.

The following objects are passed into the script:

* `params` - external report parameters map. Below is an example to get a parameter value:
+
[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
def active = params['active']
----

* `parentBand` - parent band as an object of the `io.jmix.reports.yarg.structure.BandData` type. This object allows you to get a parent band field value by invoking the `getParameterValue()` method, for example:
+
[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
def groupId = parentBand.getParameterValue('groupId')
----

* `currentAuthentication` - an object of the `io.jmix.core.security.CurrentAuthentication` type associated with the currently authenticated user. For example:
+
[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
def user = currentAuthentication.getUser()
----

* `metadata` - an object of the `io.jmix.core.Metadata` type, providing access the application metadata. For example:
+
[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
def metaClass = metadata.getClass('User')
----

* `dataManager` - an object of the `io.jmix.core.DataManager` type that provides CRUD functionality. For example:
+
[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
def book = dataManager.load(Book.class).id(bookId).fetchPlan("book.edit").one()
----

* `timeSource` - an object of the `io.jmix.core.TimeSource` type used to obtain the current time. For example:
+
[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
def currentDate = timeSource.currentTimestamp()
----

* `applicationContext` - an object of the `org.springframework.context.ApplicationContext` type that provides access to managed beans. For example:
+
[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
def accountService = applicationContext.getBean(AccountService);
----

[[structure_entity]]
=== Entity Dataset

*Entity* dataset consists of a single row and is produced using attributes of a single JPA entity instance and the entities related to it.

The data source is produced from an external parameter of the *Entity* type, which must be described in the *Parameters* tab. The value in the *Entity parameter name* field must match the parameter name.

The report template must contain fields with entity attribute names. Attribute names can use names in the existing fetch plan by checking *Use existing fetch plan* or can be selected by the *Select entity attributes* button.

[CAUTION]
====
As the reporting engine always reloads entities in the *Entity* dataset from the database, you cannot use it for DTO entities or JPA entity instances not saved to the database. Instead, use the <<structure_groovy,Groovy dataset>> and access the entity passed as a parameter in the following way:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
def entity = params['entity']

return [['title': entity.title,
        'description': entity.description]]
----
====

[[structure_list]]
=== List of Entities Dataset

*List of entities* dataset is produced using a list of JPA entity instances.

The data source is produced using an external parameter being a *List of entities*, which must be described in the *Parameters* tab. The value in the *List of entities parameter name* field must match the parameter alias.

The report template must contain fields with entity attribute names. Attribute names can use names in the existing fetch plan by checking *Use existing fetch plan* or can be selected by the *Select entity attributes* button.

[CAUTION]
====
As the reporting engine always reloads entities in the *List of entities* dataset from the database, you cannot use it for DTO entities or JPA entity instances not saved to the database. Instead, use the <<structure_groovy,Groovy dataset>> and access the list of entities passed as a parameter in the following way:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
return params['entities'].collect {[
    'title': it.title,
    'description': it.description
]}
----
====

[[structure_json]]
=== JSON Dataset

*JSON* dataset is generated from JSON data. This data can be received from the following sources:

. *Groovy script*
+
--
The script provided by the user is supposed to return JSON data as a string.

For example:

[source, json,indent=0]
----
include::example$/library/src/main/resources/com/company/library/reports/bands/json.groovy[]
----
--

. *URL*
+
--
The report engine will perform a GET HTTP query against the URL.

For example:

[source, plain,indent=0]
----
https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users
----
--

. *Parameter*
+
--
The report external parameter of String type which contains the JSON data must be described in the *Parameters* tab.
--

The received JSON tree is queried using the JsonPath query. For example, you can use the `$.store.book[*]` JsonPath to return all books from the following JSON tree:

[source, json,indent=0]
----
include::example$/library/src/main/resources/com/company/library/reports/bands/json.json[]
----

For more details on JsonPath expressions, see the http://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/[documentation^].

[CAUTION]
====
Fields outputted by the report that have `Date`, `DateTime`, or `Time` data types do not support the format defined by `java.text.SimpleDateFormat`. To set the correct format, you should write a Groovy script.

To do this, switch to the **Value formats** tab of the report detail view and open the xref:creation/value-formats.adoc[formatter] dialog. For example, for the field `bookPublication.dateTime` Groovy-script will look like this:

[source, groovy,indent=0]
----
include::example$/library/src/main/resources/com/company/library/reports/bands/formatter_for_dates.groovy[]
----
====
