content/modules/backoffice-ui/pages/data-components.adoc, before:

= Data Components

Data components are non-visual elements of screens that provide loading of data, binding it to data-aware visual components and saving changed data back to the data store. There are the following categories of data components:

* xref:backoffice-ui:data/data-containers.adoc[Containers] provide the thin layer between entities and data-aware visual components. Different types of containers hold either single instances or collections of entities.
* xref:backoffice-ui:data/data-loaders.adoc[Loaders] load data to containers.
* xref:backoffice-ui:data/data-context.adoc[DataContext] tracks changes in entities and saves changed instances upon request.

Usually, data components are defined in the screen XML descriptor in the `<data>` element:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/data/department-browse-data.xml[tags=data]
----

Data components can be injected into the controller in the same way as visual components:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/data/DepartmentBrowseData.java[tags=loader;name;before-show]
----

Data components of a particular screen are registered in the `ScreenData` object which is associated with the screen controller and available through its `getScreenData()` method. This object is useful when you need to load all data for the screen, for example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/data/DepartmentEditData.java[tags=before-show]
----

NOTE: Use `DataLoadCoordinator` facet for declarative linking of data loaders to data containers, visual components and screen events. In case you need to set some loading parameters, you can use programmatic loading.

Commit message:

Using Data Components section (minor changes) #198

content/modules/backoffice-ui/pages/data-components.adoc, after:

= Data Components

Data components are non-visual elements of screens that provide loading of data, binding it to data-aware visual components and saving changed data back to the data store. There are the following categories of data components:

* xref:backoffice-ui:data/data-containers.adoc[Containers] provide the thin layer between entities and data-aware visual components. Different types of containers hold either single instances or collections of entities.
* xref:backoffice-ui:data/data-loaders.adoc[Loaders] load data to containers.
* xref:backoffice-ui:data/data-context.adoc[DataContext] tracks changes in entities and saves changed instances upon request.

Usually, data components are defined in the screen XML descriptor in the `<data>` element:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/screen/data/department-browse-data.xml[tags=data]
----

Data components can be injected into the controller in the same way as visual components:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/data/DepartmentBrowseData.java[tags=loader;name;before-show]
----

Data components of a particular screen are registered in the `ScreenData` object which is associated with the screen controller and available through its `getScreenData()` method. This object is useful when you need to load all data for the screen, for example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/screen/data/DepartmentEditData.java[tags=before-show]
----

NOTE: Use `DataLoadCoordinator` facet for declarative linking of data loaders to data containers, visual components and screen events. In case you need to set some loading parameters, you can use programmatic loading as described in the section xref:backoffice-ui:data/data-examples.adoc#using-screen-parameters-in-loaders[below].
