content/modules/ui/pages/custom-components/js-component.adoc, before:

= Generic JavaScriptComponent
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:custom-components/js-component.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=java-script-component-time-picker" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`JavaScriptComponent` is a simple UI component that can work with any JavaScript wrapper without Vaadin component implementation. Thus, you can easily integrate any pure JavaScript component in your Jmix-based application.

The component can be defined declaratively in an XML descriptor of the screen so that you can configure dynamic properties and JavaScript dependencies in XML.

XML-name of the component: `jsComponent`.

== Defining Dependencies

You can define a list of dependencies (JavaScript, CSS) for the component. A dependency can be obtained from the following sources:

* WebJar resource - starts with `webjar://`.
* File placed within VAADIN directory - starts with `vaadin://`.
* Web resource - starts with `http://` or `https://`.

[[element-dependencies]]
The list of dependencies is defined in the `dependencies` element. Each dependency is described in a nested `dependency` element.

[[dependency-path]]
Specify a dependency path in the `path` attribute.

Example of defining dependencies in XML:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/components/javascript/java-script-component-sample.xml[tags=js-component]
----

[[dependency-type]]
If the type of dependency cannot be inferred from the extension, specify the type explicitly in the `type` XML attribute.

You can add a dependency programmatically using the `addDependency()` method. To specify the type of dependency, pass the `DependencyType` enum value to the `addDependency()` method.

Example of adding dependencies programmatically:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/components/javascript/JavaScriptComponentSample.java[tags=add-dependencies]
----

[[init-function-name]]
== Defining Initialization Function

The component requires an initialization function. This function’s name will be used to find an entry point for the JavaScript component connector.

[CAUTION]
====
The initialization function name must be unique within a window.
====

Specify the function name in the `initFunctionName` attribute of `jsComponent`.

The function name can be passed to the component using the `setInitFunctionName()` method:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/components/javascript/JavaScriptComponentSample.java[tags=set-init-function-name]
----

== Defining JavaScript Connector

To use `JavaScriptComponent` wrapper for a library, you should define a JavaScript connector - a function that initializes the JavaScript component and handles communication between the server-side and the JavaScript code.

The following methods are available from the connector function:

* `this.getElement()` returns the HTML DOM element of the component.
* `this.getState()` returns a shared state object with the current state as synchronized from the server-side.

== Component Features

`JavaScriptComponent` has the following features that let you:

* Set a state object that can be used in the client-side JavaScript connector and is accessible from the `data` field of the component’s state, for example:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/components/javascript/JavaScriptComponentSample.java[tags=state]
----
* Register a function that can be called from the JavaScript using the provided name, for example:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/components/javascript/JavaScriptComponentSample.java[tags=register-function]
----
* Invoke a named function that the JavaScript connector has added to the connector wrapper object.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/components/javascript/JavaScriptComponentSample.java[tags=call-function]
----
+
[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/VAADIN/timepicker/time-picker-connector.js[tags=function]
----

== Using JavaScriptComponent

This section describes integrating a third-party JavaScript library to a Jmix-based application taking https://quilljs.com/[Quill Rich Text Editor^] as an example. To use Quill in your project, you should follow the steps below.

////
This section describes integrating a third-party JavaScript library to a Jmix-based application taking http://ericjgagnon.github.io/wickedpicker/[Wickedpicker^] - a simple jQuery timepicker plugin. To use Wickedpicker in your project, you should follow the steps below.
////

. Add the following dependency to the `build.gradle` file:
+
[source,gradle,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/build.gradle[tags=quill]
----

. Create the `quill-connector.js` file in the `src/main/resources/VAADIN/quill` directory.
. In this file, add the connector implementation:
+
[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/VAADIN/quill/quill-connector.js[]
----
<1> Handle changes from the server-side.
<2> Subscribe on the `textChange` event.

. Create a screen with the following `jsComponent` definition:
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/components/javascript/rich-text-editor-screen.xml[]
----

. Add the following screen controller implementation:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/components/javascript/RichTextEditorScreen.java[tags=rich-text-editor-screen]
----

As a result, the Quill Rich Text Editor is available on the screen:

image::custom-components/java-script-component.png[align="center"]

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../vcl/xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<init-function-name,initFunctionName>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-indicator-visible[requiredIndicatorVisible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

[[xml-js-component-elements]]
=== JavaScriptComponent XML Elements

<<element-dependencies,dependencies>>

[[xml-dependency-attributes]]
=== Dependency XML Attributes

<<dependency-path,path>> -
<<dependency-type,type>>

Commit message:

Explain how to add a Tab in Studio #448

content/modules/ui/pages/custom-components/js-component.adoc, after:

= Generic JavaScriptComponent
:page-aliases: backoffice-ui:custom-components/js-component.adoc

++++
<div class="jmix-ui-live-demo-container">
    <a href="https://demo.jmix.io/sampler/#main/sample?id=java-script-component-time-picker" class="live-demo-btn" target="_blank">LIVE DEMO</a>
</div>
++++

`JavaScriptComponent` is a simple UI component that can work with any JavaScript wrapper without Vaadin component implementation. Thus, you can easily integrate any pure JavaScript component in your Jmix-based application.

The component can be defined declaratively in an XML descriptor of the screen so that you can configure dynamic properties and JavaScript dependencies in XML.

XML-name of the component: `jsComponent`.

== Defining Dependencies

You can define a list of dependencies (JavaScript, CSS) for the component. A dependency can be obtained from the following sources:

* WebJar resource - starts with `webjar://`.
* File placed within VAADIN directory - starts with `vaadin://`.
* Web resource - starts with `http://` or `https://`.

[[element-dependencies]]
The list of dependencies is defined in the `dependencies` element. Each dependency is described in a nested `dependency` element.

[[dependency-path]]
Specify a dependency path in the `path` attribute.

Example of defining dependencies in XML:

[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/components/javascript/java-script-component-sample.xml[tags=js-component]
----

[[dependency-type]]
If the type of dependency cannot be inferred from the extension, specify the type explicitly in the `type` XML attribute.

[TIP]
====
To add a dependency in Jmix Studio, select `jsComponent` in the screen descriptor XML or in the *Component Hierarchy* panel and click on the xref:studio:screen-designer.adoc#component-inspector-add-button[Add]*->Dependency* button in the *Component Inspector* panel.
====

You can add a dependency programmatically using the `addDependency()` method. To specify the type of dependency, pass the `DependencyType` enum value to the `addDependency()` method.

Example of adding dependencies programmatically:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/components/javascript/JavaScriptComponentSample.java[tags=add-dependencies]
----

[[init-function-name]]
== Defining Initialization Function

The component requires an initialization function. This function’s name will be used to find an entry point for the JavaScript component connector.

[CAUTION]
====
The initialization function name must be unique within a window.
====

Specify the function name in the `initFunctionName` attribute of `jsComponent`.

The function name can be passed to the component using the `setInitFunctionName()` method:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/components/javascript/JavaScriptComponentSample.java[tags=set-init-function-name]
----

== Defining JavaScript Connector

To use `JavaScriptComponent` wrapper for a library, you should define a JavaScript connector - a function that initializes the JavaScript component and handles communication between the server-side and the JavaScript code.

The following methods are available from the connector function:

* `this.getElement()` returns the HTML DOM element of the component.
* `this.getState()` returns a shared state object with the current state as synchronized from the server-side.

== Component Features

`JavaScriptComponent` has the following features that let you:

* Set a state object that can be used in the client-side JavaScript connector and is accessible from the `data` field of the component’s state, for example:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/components/javascript/JavaScriptComponentSample.java[tags=state]
----
* Register a function that can be called from the JavaScript using the provided name, for example:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/components/javascript/JavaScriptComponentSample.java[tags=register-function]
----
* Invoke a named function that the JavaScript connector has added to the connector wrapper object.
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/components/javascript/JavaScriptComponentSample.java[tags=call-function]
----
+
[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/VAADIN/timepicker/time-picker-connector.js[tags=function]
----

== Using JavaScriptComponent

This section describes integrating a third-party JavaScript library to a Jmix-based application taking https://quilljs.com/[Quill Rich Text Editor^] as an example. To use Quill in your project, you should follow the steps below.

////
This section describes integrating a third-party JavaScript library to a Jmix-based application taking http://ericjgagnon.github.io/wickedpicker/[Wickedpicker^] - a simple jQuery timepicker plugin. To use Wickedpicker in your project, you should follow the steps below.
////

. Add the following dependency to the `build.gradle` file:
+
[source,gradle,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/build.gradle[tags=quill]
----

. Create the `quill-connector.js` file in the `src/main/resources/VAADIN/quill` directory.
. In this file, add the connector implementation:
+
[source,js,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/VAADIN/quill/quill-connector.js[]
----
<1> Handle changes from the server-side.
<2> Subscribe on the `textChange` event.

. Create a screen with the following `jsComponent` definition:
+
[source,xml,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/resources/ui/ex1/components/javascript/rich-text-editor-screen.xml[]
----

. Add the following screen controller implementation:
+
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/ui/ex1/components/javascript/RichTextEditorScreen.java[tags=rich-text-editor-screen]
----

As a result, the Quill Rich Text Editor is available on the screen:

image::custom-components/java-script-component.png[align="center"]

[[xml]]
== All XML Attributes

include::../vcl/xml-studio-tip.adoc[]

xref:vcl/xml.adoc#align[align] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#box-expand-ratio[box.expandRatio] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption[caption] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#caption-as-html[captionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#colspan[colspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text[contextHelpText] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#context-help-text-html-enabled[contextHelpTextHtmlEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#css[css] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description[description] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#description-as-html[descriptionAsHtml] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#enable[enable] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#height[height] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#html-sanitizer-enabled[htmlSanitizerEnabled] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#icon[icon] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#id[id] -
<<init-function-name,initFunctionName>> -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#required-indicator-visible[requiredIndicatorVisible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#responsive[responsive] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#rowspan[rowspan] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#stylename[stylename] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#visible[visible] -
xref:vcl/xml.adoc#width[width]

[[xml-js-component-elements]]
=== JavaScriptComponent XML Elements

<<element-dependencies,dependencies>>

[[xml-dependency-attributes]]
=== Dependency XML Attributes

<<dependency-path,path>> -
<<dependency-type,type>>
