content/modules/quick-start/pages/adding-business-logic.adoc, before:

[[qs-adding-business-logic]]
== Adding business logic

Now we will use Jmix Studio to create a service that implements business logic and use this service in a screen. It will be a service for session rescheduling that will ensure that one speaker doesn’t have more than two sessions in one day.

Right-click on the root project package in the source project tree and select *New ->Package*.

image::adding-business-logic/create-new-package.png[align="center"]

Create the package `com.company.planner.service`.

image::adding-business-logic/name-new-package.png[align="center"]

Right-click on the created package and select *New ->Java Class*.

image::adding-business-logic/create-new-class.png[align="center"]

Create the class `TalksScheduleService`.

image::adding-business-logic/name-new-class.png[align="center"]

[source%nowrap,java]
----
public class TalksScheduleService {

}
----

Mark this class with the `@Service` annotation and create a method `rescheduleTalk` that will accept a talk that should be rescheduled and new talk start time like in the snippet below. During the further service implementation you may need to import some classes.

[source%nowrap,java]
----
@Service
public class TalksScheduleService {

    public Talk rescheduleTalk(Talk talk, LocalDateTime newStartDate){
        return null;
    }

}
----

First, let's calculate the start and end time of the day when the session is planned.

[source%nowrap,java]
----
@Service
public class TalksScheduleService {

    public Talk rescheduleTalk(Talk talk, LocalDateTime newStartDate){
        LocalDateTime dayStart = newStartDate.truncatedTo(ChronoUnit.DAYS).withHour(8);
        LocalDateTime dayEnd = newStartDate.truncatedTo(ChronoUnit.DAYS).withHour(19);
        return null;
    }

}
----

For the service, we will use Jmix API for data access - `DataManager` class. With this class we create a JPQL query to check if there are any talks scheduled for the speaker in a defined time span and add parameter values to it. Then we check the query result and, depending on the result, we update the talk with a new start date or just return the original talk instance.

Inject the DataManager into the service into the class body. You can use *Inject* button on the top left corner in the code editor.

image::adding-business-logic/inject-button.png[align="center"]

Select *DataManager* in the popup screen.

image::adding-business-logic/inject-service-dialog.png[align="center"]

The method implementation is on the snippet below:

[source%nowrap,java]
----
@Service
public class TalksScheduleService {

    @Autowired
    private DataManager dataManager;

    public Talk rescheduleTalk(Talk talk, LocalDateTime newStartDate){
        LocalDateTime dayStart = newStartDate.truncatedTo(ChronoUnit.DAYS).withHour(8);
        LocalDateTime dayEnd = newStartDate.truncatedTo(ChronoUnit.DAYS).withHour(19);

        Long talksSameTime = dataManager.loadValue("select count(t) from plnnr_Talk t where " +
                "(t.startDate between :dayStart and :dayEnd) " +
                "and t.speaker = :speaker " +
                "and t.id <> :talkId", Long.class)
                .parameter("dayStart", dayStart)
                .parameter("dayEnd", dayEnd)
                .parameter("speaker", talk.getSpeaker())
                .parameter("talkId", talk.getId())
                .one();
        if (talksSameTime >= 2) {
            return talk;
        }
        talk.setStartDate(newStartDate);
        return dataManager.save(talk);
    }
}
----

The service is ready, now let’s add it to the talks browser screen. It will be invoked for the drag-and-drop event in the calendar.

In the `talk-browse.xml` select `talksCalendar` and go to the *Handlers* tab in the *Component Inspector* window. Select *CalendarEventMoveEvent* and click the ▶ icon to generate method stub and move to the controller.

In the method that is subscribed to the drag-and-drop event, we add some code to extract the talk entity from the calendar event and pass it to the service to reschedule this talk. After that, we just refresh the screen.

[source%nowrap,java]
----
@Subscribe("talksCalendar")
public void onTalksCalendarCalendarEventMove(Calendar.CalendarEventMoveEvent<LocalDateTime> event) {
    talksScheduleService.rescheduleTalk((Talk)event.getEntity(), event.getNewStart());
    getScreenData().loadAll();
}
----

To have the new service redeployed, we need to restart the application. After restarting we can open the calendar - and voila! We have drag-and-drop rescheduling functionality for the calendar! Let’s test it by adding an extra talk and trying to reschedule it.

Commit message:

Fixed some glitches in text, added chapter to the main text

content/modules/quick-start/pages/adding-business-logic.adoc, after:

[[qs-adding-business-logic]]
== Adding business logic

Now we will use Jmix Studio to create a service that implements business logic and use this service in a screen. It will be a service for the talks rescheduling that will ensure that one speaker doesn’t have more than two talks in one day.

Right-click on the root project package in the source project tree and select *New ->Package*.

image::adding-business-logic/create-new-package.png[align="center"]

Create the package `com.company.planner.service`.

image::adding-business-logic/name-new-package.png[align="center"]

Right-click on the created package and select *New ->Java Class*.

image::adding-business-logic/create-new-class.png[align="center"]

Create the class `TalksScheduleService`.

image::adding-business-logic/name-new-class.png[align="center"]

[source%nowrap,java]
----
public class TalksScheduleService {

}
----

Mark this class with the `@Service` annotation and create a method `rescheduleTalk` that will accept a talk that should be rescheduled and new talk start time like in the snippet below. During the further service implementation you may need to import some classes.

[source%nowrap,java]
----
@Service
public class TalksScheduleService {

    public Talk rescheduleTalk(Talk talk, LocalDateTime newStartDate){
        return null;
    }

}
----

First, let's calculate the start and end time of the day when the session is planned.

[source%nowrap,java]
----
@Service
public class TalksScheduleService {

    public Talk rescheduleTalk(Talk talk, LocalDateTime newStartDate){
        LocalDateTime dayStart = newStartDate.truncatedTo(ChronoUnit.DAYS).withHour(8);
        LocalDateTime dayEnd = newStartDate.truncatedTo(ChronoUnit.DAYS).withHour(19);
        return null;
    }

}
----

For the service, we will use Jmix API for data access - `DataManager` class. With this class we create a JPQL query to check if there are any talks scheduled for the speaker in a defined time span and add parameter values to it. Then we check the query result and, depending on the result, we update the talk with a new start date or just return the original talk instance.

Inject the DataManager into the service into the class body. You can use *Inject* button on the top left corner in the code editor.

image::adding-business-logic/inject-button.png[align="center"]

Select *DataManager* in the popup screen.

image::adding-business-logic/inject-service-dialog.png[align="center"]

The method implementation is on the snippet below:

[source%nowrap,java]
----
@Service
public class TalksScheduleService {

    @Autowired
    private DataManager dataManager;

    public Talk rescheduleTalk(Talk talk, LocalDateTime newStartDate){
        LocalDateTime dayStart = newStartDate.truncatedTo(ChronoUnit.DAYS).withHour(8);
        LocalDateTime dayEnd = newStartDate.truncatedTo(ChronoUnit.DAYS).withHour(19);

        Long talksSameTime = dataManager.loadValue("select count(t) from plnnr_Talk t where " +
                "(t.startDate between :dayStart and :dayEnd) " +
                "and t.speaker = :speaker " +
                "and t.id <> :talkId", Long.class)
                .parameter("dayStart", dayStart)
                .parameter("dayEnd", dayEnd)
                .parameter("speaker", talk.getSpeaker())
                .parameter("talkId", talk.getId())
                .one();
        if (talksSameTime >= 2) {
            return talk;
        }
        talk.setStartDate(newStartDate);
        return dataManager.save(talk);
    }
}
----

The service is ready, now let’s add it to the talks browser screen. It will be invoked for the drag-and-drop event in the calendar.

In the `talk-browse.xml` select `talksCalendar` and go to the *Handlers* tab in the *Component Inspector* window. Select *CalendarEventMoveEvent* and click the ▶ icon to generate method stub and move to the controller. We did similar work before in the link:using-screen-api.adoc#qs-using-screen-api["Using screen API"] chapter.

In the method that is subscribed to the drag-and-drop event, we add some code to extract the talk entity from the calendar event and pass it to the service to reschedule this talk. After that, we just refresh the screen.

[source%nowrap,java]
----
@Subscribe("talksCalendar")
public void onTalksCalendarCalendarEventMove(Calendar.CalendarEventMoveEvent<LocalDateTime> event) {
    talksScheduleService.rescheduleTalk((Talk)event.getEntity(), event.getNewStart());
    getScreenData().loadAll();
}
----

To have the new service redeployed, we need to restart the application. After restarting we can open the calendar - and voila! We have drag-and-drop rescheduling functionality for the calendar! You can test it by adding an extra talk and trying to reschedule it.
