content/modules/quick-start/pages/creating-data-model.adoc, before:

[[qs-creating-data-model]]
== Creating application's data model

The first task is creating entities. The business domain model has only two classes: Speaker and Talk. The relation is one-to-many. One speaker can conduct many talks.

// TODO
// image::

For a starter, let’s create the `Speaker` entity. To do this, you just need to expand `src/main/java` folder, right-click on any package in your source code and select `New -> JPA Entity...`:

image::creating-data-model/create-new-entity-menu.png[align="center"]

Enter entity’s class - "Speaker". For this sample application, we do not need to change other entity parameters.

image::creating-data-model/set-entity-class.png[align="center"]

In the entity designer, create attributes according to the specification:

[cols="3, 2, 2, 5" options="header"]
|===
|Name |Type |Mandatory |Other constraints
|firstName|String (255)|Yes|
|lastName|String (255)||
|email|String (1024)|Yes|“Email” validator
|===

In Jmix we use standard JPA entities, so you can create them using either code editor or visual designer:

image::creating-data-model/entity-designer-empty.png[align="center"]

In the visual designer, just click on "+" icon to add attributes to the entity, Jmix Studio will generate class members for you.

image::creating-data-model/add-new-attribute.png[align="center"]

To add validation to the *email* attribute, create this attribute and then select *Email* validator in the *Validation* section in right part of the entity designer.

image::creating-data-model/email-validator-select.png[align="center"]

Click on the `not set` label to invoke the validator editor and enable the validator. You can specify a custom error message or a regexp for validation if needed.

image::creating-data-model/email-validator-enabled-dialog.png[align="center"]

To display an entity in a readable format, you can select one of the fields or use a method annotated with `@InstanceName`. For now, we will use `lastName` field for this. We can choose the field in the entity designer.

image::creating-data-model/entity-instance-name.png[align="center"]

If we open the *Text* tab on the bottom of the entity designer, we can see just a JPA-annotated java class. The generated code can be updated if needed, designer will be updated accordingly when you switch to the *Designer* tab.

Let’s move further and create the `Talk` entity and link it to the `Speaker` class. Fields specification table follows. The talk end time will be a calculated value, being the start date and time plus duration. `End time` field is created as a regular field, we will create calculation algorithm a bit later.

[cols="1, 4, 1" options="header"]
|===
|Name |Type |Mandatory
|topic|String (255)|Yes
|startDate|LocalDateTime|Yes
//TODO end date must be removed when https://youtrack.haulmont.com/issue/JST-432 is fixed
|endDate|LocalDateTime|
|speaker|Association to the `Speaker` entity, many-to-one cardinality|Yes
|duration|Integer|Yes
|description|String (Unlimited)|
|===

Look at the mandatory reference to the speaker attribute. The relation is many-to-one, so, we’ll define an association field called "speaker" that references the `Speaker` class. In the end, the field definition should look like this:

image::creating-data-model/speaker-reference-attribute.png[align="center"]

For the `Talk` entity let's choose the `topic` attribute as the instance name

image::creating-data-model/talk-instance-name.png[align="center"]

We have almost created the entity model for our application.

Commit message:

Updated documentation due to the bug https://youtrack.haulmont.com/issue/JST-432 fixed

content/modules/quick-start/pages/creating-data-model.adoc, after:

[[qs-creating-data-model]]
== Creating application's data model

The first task is creating entities. The business domain model has only two classes: Speaker and Talk. The relation is one-to-many. One speaker can conduct many talks.

image::creating-data-model/er-speaker-talk.png[align="center"]

For a starter, let’s create the `Speaker` entity. To do this, you just need to expand `src/main/java` folder, right-click on any package in your source code and select `New -> JPA Entity...`:

image::creating-data-model/create-new-entity-menu.png[align="center"]

Enter entity’s class - "Speaker". For this sample application, we do not need to change other entity parameters.

image::creating-data-model/set-entity-class.png[align="center"]

In the entity designer, create attributes according to the specification:

[cols="3, 2, 2, 5" options="header"]
|===
|Name |Type |Mandatory |Other constraints
|firstName|String (255)|Yes|
|lastName|String (255)||
|email|String (1024)|Yes|“Email” validator
|===

In Jmix we use standard JPA entities, so you can create them using either code editor or visual designer:

image::creating-data-model/entity-designer-empty.png[align="center"]

In the visual designer, just click on "+" icon to add attributes to the entity, Jmix Studio will generate class members for you.

image::creating-data-model/add-new-attribute.png[align="center"]

To add validation to the *email* attribute, create this attribute and then select *Email* validator in the *Validation* section in right part of the entity designer.

image::creating-data-model/email-validator-select.png[align="center"]

Click on the `not set` label to invoke the validator editor and enable the validator. You can specify a custom error message or a regexp for validation if needed.

image::creating-data-model/email-validator-enabled-dialog.png[align="center"]

To display an entity in a readable format, you can select one of the fields or use a method annotated with `@InstanceName`. For now, we will use `lastName` field for this. We can choose the field in the entity designer.

image::creating-data-model/entity-instance-name.png[align="center"]

If we open the *Text* tab on the bottom of the entity designer, we can see just a JPA-annotated java class. The generated code can be updated if needed, designer will be updated accordingly when you switch to the *Designer* tab.

Let’s move further and create the `Talk` entity and link it to the `Speaker` class. Fields specification table follows. The talk end time will be a calculated value, being the start date and time plus duration. Talk's `End time` field will be a calculated field, we will create it later.

[cols="1, 4, 1" options="header"]
|===
|Name |Type |Mandatory
|topic|String (255)|Yes
|startDate|LocalDateTime|Yes
//|endDate|LocalDateTime|
|speaker|Association to the `Speaker` entity, many-to-one cardinality|Yes
|duration|Integer|Yes
|description|String (Unlimited)|
|===

Look at the mandatory reference to the speaker attribute. The relation is many-to-one, so, we’ll define an association field called "speaker" that references the `Speaker` class. In the end, the field definition should look like this:

image::creating-data-model/speaker-reference-attribute.png[align="center"]

For the `Talk` entity let's choose the `topic` attribute as the instance name

image::creating-data-model/talk-instance-name.png[align="center"]

We have almost created the entity model for our application.
