content/modules/quick-start/pages/creating-calculated-attribute.adoc, before:

[[qs-creating-calculated-attribute]]
== Creating calculated attribute for entities

Now, we need to create an auto calculated attribute for the talk’s end date and time. First add the getter method with `LocalDateTime` return type to the `Talk` class and name it `getEndDate()`. We also need to add `@JmixProperty` annotation for this method, so it is treated as read-only `endDate` attribute by Jmix. For the calculated attribute, we need to specify the fields to be loaded. In our case, these are `startDate` and `duration`. To specify these properties as required for the calculated attribute, we need to use the annotation `@DependsOnProperties`. After creating the method header, we can just add the calculation logic.

[source%nowrap,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/sample-planner/src/main/java/com/company/planner/entity/Talk.java[tags=calculated-attribute]
----

Notice that Studio highlights the method because we need to specify a text label for the attribute. Put the cursor on the method name and press *Alt+Enter* (*⌘+n* in Mac) and create the message text in the message bundle.

image::creating-calculated-attribute/add-localized-message.png[align="center"]

In the dialog, set property name "End date"

image::creating-calculated-attribute/add-message-dialog.png[align="center"]

In the previous section - "link:creating-data-model.adoc[Creating application's data model]", for the `Speaker` entity we have defined `lastName` as an entity's instance display name. Now we can define a method that will use a speaker's full name to display them in the UI.

To do this, we need to create a new method - `getFullName()` in the `Speaker` class and make its return type `String`. Then we need to move (cut and paste) annotation `@InstanceName` from `lastName` field to this method and add `@DependsOnProperties` annotation to use `firstName` and `lastName` fields in the method. Then all we need to do is to generate full speaker's name in the method body.

[source%nowrap,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$sample-planner/src/main/java/com/company/planner/entity/User.java[tags=instance-name]
----

That’s it. Our domain model has been created with calculated fields.

Commit message:

Using entity designer to create a calculated field

content/modules/quick-start/pages/creating-calculated-attribute.adoc, after:

[[qs-creating-calculated-attribute]]
== Creating calculated attribute for entities

Now, we need to create an auto calculated attribute for the talk’s end date and time. Create a new attribute `endDate` of `localDateTime` type and mark it as *Transient*. We do not need to generate a field for this attribute, so uncheck the *Create field* checkbox.

For the calculated attribute, we need to specify the fields to be loaded. In our case, these are `startDate` and `duration`. Click on the *✎* icon in the *Related attributes* field to invoke the editor.

image::creating-calculated-attribute/create-calculated-attribute-end-date.png[align="center"]

After creating the attribute, switch to the editor and add the calculation logic.

[source%nowrap,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/sample-planner/src/main/java/com/company/planner/entity/Talk.java[tags=calculated-attribute]
----

In the previous section - "link:creating-data-model.adoc[Creating application's data model]", for the `Speaker` entity we have defined `lastName` as an entity's instance display name. Now we can define a method that will use a speaker's full name to display them in the UI.

To do this, we need to create a new method - `getFullName()` in the `Speaker` class and make its return type `String`. Then we need to move (cut and paste) annotation `@InstanceName` from `lastName` field to this method and add `@DependsOnProperties` annotation to use `firstName` and `lastName` fields in the method. Then all we need to do is to generate full speaker's name in the method body.

[source%nowrap,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$sample-planner/src/main/java/com/company/planner/entity/User.java[tags=instance-name]
----

That’s it. Our domain model has been created with calculated fields.
