content/modules/quick-start/pages/using-screen-api.adoc, before:

[[qs-using-screen-api]]
== Using Screen API

Let’s handle a click on a calendar’s entry and invoke the talk editor. For screen manipulations, Jmix provides a screen builder API that we will use.

In the `talk-browse.xml` file, select `talksCalendar` and go to the *Handlers* tab in the *Component Inspector* window. Select *CalendarEventClickEvent* handler and click on the ▶ icon to generate the code, and then move to the controller.

image::using-screen-api/generate-calendar-event-handler.png[align="center"]

The empty method will be generated for you.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$sample-planner/src/main/java/com/company/planner/screen/examples/TalkBrowse1.java[tags=event-click]
----

We need to invoke the editor screen to change the talk’s properties. Jmix framework provides a set of screen API services to simplify work with the Backoffice UI screens.

To get access to screen API, specifically to the `ScreenBuilders` service, you need to inject it into the screen.

To do this, click on the *Inject* button in the screen's controller source code editor toolbar:

image::using-screen-api/screen-editor-toolbar.png[align="center"]

And in the dialog window, select the service:

image::using-screen-api/inject-screen-api-dialog.png[align="center"]

Jmix's screen builder API allows us to do invoke the editor pretty easy by adding several method calls to a builder step by step. The code below just illustrates all the steps:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$sample-planner/src/main/java/com/company/planner/screen/talk/TalkBrowse.java[tags=calendar-event-click]
----

<1> Creates an editor for the `Talk` entity using `this` instance of the browser screen as a parent.
<2> Specifies the entity instance that will be edited by extracting it from the UI event.
<3> Defines editor's open mode. It will be a dialog for our case.
<4> Specifies the exact editor's screen class. In general, there might be more than one screen that can be used to edit the talk.
<5> Reloads data in the screen if the editor was closed using the *Save* button.
<6> Shows the editor.

Now, if you restart the application and click on an event, you will see the talk editor.

image::using-screen-api/talk-editor-big.png[align="center"]

The editor doesn’t look nice, so we need to adjust its width and height. In the IDE, open the screen’s XML descriptor - `talk-edit.xml`, select *dialogMode* component in the *Component Hierarchy* window and set `width` and `height` properties to `auto` in the *Component Inspector*.

image::using-screen-api/dialog-mode-auto.png[align="center"]

Restart the application, open the *Talk browser* and click on the talk in the calendar again - you will see the editor dialog displayed correctly.

image::using-screen-api/talk-editor-auto.png[aligh="center"]

Now the editor looks nicer.

Commit message:

Actualize Quick Start after release 0.9 #75
update after review 1

content/modules/quick-start/pages/using-screen-api.adoc, after:

[[qs-using-screen-api]]
== Using Screen API

Let’s handle a click on a calendar’s entry and invoke the talk editor. For screen manipulations, Jmix provides a screen builder API that we will use.

In the `talk-browse.xml` file, select `talksCalendar` and go to the *Handlers* tab in the *Component Inspector* window. Select *CalendarEventClickEvent* handler and click on the ▶ icon to generate the code, and then move to the controller.

image::using-screen-api/generate-calendar-event-handler.png[align="center"]

The empty method will be generated for you.

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$sample-planner/src/main/java/com/company/planner/screen/examples/TalkBrowse1.java[tags=event-click]
----

We need to invoke the editor screen to change the talk’s properties. Jmix framework provides a set of screen API services to simplify work with the Backoffice UI screens.

To get access to screen API, specifically to the `ScreenBuilders` service, you need to inject it into the screen.

To do this, click on the *Inject* button in the screen's controller source code editor toolbar:

image::using-screen-api/screen-editor-toolbar.png[align="center"]

To search for the service, start typing its name and then use *Up* and *Down* keys to navigate between services available for injection.

image::using-screen-api/inject-screen-api-dialog.png[align="center"]

Jmix's screen builder API allows us to do invoke the editor pretty easily by adding several method calls to a builder step by step. The code below illustrates all the steps:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$sample-planner/src/main/java/com/company/planner/screen/talk/TalkBrowse.java[tags=calendar-event-click]
----

<1> Creates an editor for the `Talk` entity using `this` instance of the browser screen as a parent.
<2> Specifies the entity instance that will be edited by extracting it from the UI event.
<3> Defines editor's open mode. It will be a dialog for our case.
<4> Specifies the exact editor's screen class. In general, there might be more than one screen that can be used to edit the talk.
<5> Reloads data in the screen if the editor was closed using the *Save* button.
<6> Shows the editor.

Now, if you restart the application and click on an event, you will see the talk editor.

image::using-screen-api/talk-editor-big.png[align="center"]

The editor doesn’t look nice, so we need to adjust its width and height. In the IDE, open the screen’s XML descriptor - `talk-edit.xml`, select *dialogMode* component in the *Component Hierarchy* window and set `width` and `height` properties to `auto` in the *Component Inspector*.

image::using-screen-api/dialog-mode-auto.png[align="center"]

Restart the application, open the *Talk browser* and click on the talk in the calendar again - the size of the dialog is exactly adjusted to its content.

image::using-screen-api/talk-editor-auto.png[aligh="center"]
