content/modules/rest/pages/api-docs.adoc, before:

= API Documentation

The generic REST API provides automatically generated API documentation through Swagger 2.0.

You can use the API documentation to visualize, test, or generate a client code for the REST API. There are various tools that allow you to use this documentation to provide those capabilities like:

* https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-ui/[Swagger UI]
* https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-inspector/[Swagger Inspector]
* https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-codegen/[Swagger Codegen]
* https://www.postman.com/[Postman]

== Generic Swagger Documentation

The generic Swagger documentation contains descriptions for all endpoints the REST API provides. In particular, it contains API descriptions for the following parts:

* Authentication
* Entities API
* Files API
* Messages API
* User Session API

The Generic Swagger Documentation is available in `JSON` and `YAML` formats:

`/docs/swagger.yaml`:: YAML version of generic documentation.
`/docs/swagger.json`:: JSON version of generic documentation.

TIP: It is also available online at http://files.cuba-platform.com/swagger/7.2

== Project-specific Swagger Documentation

Any running Jmix application also automatically generates project-specific documentation. Project-specific means that it contains documentation not only about the standard APIs that part of Jmix, but also about your project-specific entities, like `sample_Customer`, `sample_Order`, etc.

The project-specific Swagger Documentation is available in the formats `JSON` and `YAML`:

`/docs/swaggerDetailed.yaml`:: YAML version of project-specific Swagger documentation.
`/docs/swaggerDetailed.json`:: JSON version of project-specific Swagger documentation.

Commit message:

Updated Swagger Documentation reference to OpenAPI (#193)

content/modules/rest/pages/api-docs.adoc, after:

= API Documentation

The generic REST API provides automatically generated API documentation through OpenAPI 3.0.

You can use the API documentation to visualize, test, or generate a client code for the REST API. There are various tools that allow you to use this documentation to provide those capabilities like:

* https://www.postman.com/[Postman]
* https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-ui/[Swagger UI]
* https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-inspector/[Swagger Inspector]
* https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-codegen/[Swagger Codegen]

== Generic OpenAPI Documentation

The generic OpenAPI documentation contains descriptions for all endpoints the REST API provides. In particular, it contains API descriptions for the following parts:

* Authentication
* Entities API
* Files API
* Messages API
* User Session API

The Generic OpenAPI Documentation is available in `JSON` and `YAML` formats:

`/docs/openapi.yaml`:: YAML version of generic documentation.
`/docs/openapi.json`:: JSON version of generic documentation.

TIP: It is also available online at {rest-api-open-api}

== Project-specific OpenAPI Documentation

Any running Jmix application also automatically generates project-specific documentation. Project-specific means that it contains documentation not only about the standard APIs that part of Jmix, but also about your project-specific entities, like `sample_Customer`, `sample_Order`, etc.

The project-specific OpenAPI Documentation is available in the formats `JSON` and `YAML`:

`/docs/openapiDetailed.yaml`:: YAML version of project-specific OpenAPI documentation.
`/docs/openapiDetailed.json`:: JSON version of project-specific OpenAPI documentation.
