content/modules/rest/pages/configuration.adoc, before:

= Configuration

Jmix REST properties allow you to configure different aspects of the behavior of the generic REST endpoints.

TIP: https://doc.cuba-platform.com/restapi-7.2/#rest_api_v2_settings

TIP: https://doc.cuba-platform.com/restapi-7.2/#app_properties

[[entities-api-properties]]
== Entities API


[[jmix.rest.defaultMaxFetchSize]]
=== jmix.rest.defaultMaxFetchSize

Defines the default maximum amount of entity instances that are returned by the API.

Default value: `10000`


[[jmix.rest.entityMaxFetchSize]]
=== jmix.rest.entityMaxFetchSize

Defines the default maximum amount of entity instances that are returned by the API for a particular entity.

The following example configures the `entityMaxFetchSize` value for two entities. For all other entites the value from <<jmix.rest.defaultMaxFetchSize, jmix.rest.defaultMaxFetchSize>> is taken into consideration.

[source,properties]
----
jmix.rest.entityMaxFetchSize.sample_Product = 500
jmix.rest.entityMaxFetchSize.sample_Customer = 1000
----


[[jmix.rest.jsonTransformationConfig]]
=== jmix.rest.jsonTransformationConfig

Property defining a file that contains a list of JSON transformations configurations used by the REST API when the client needs data in the format of some particular data model version.

The file is loaded using the Resources interface, so it can be located in the classpath or the configuration directory.

// TODO: [MD] link to configuration directory description once it is available in the docs

Default value: `none`

[[jmix.rest.maxUploadSize]]
=== jmix.rest.maxUploadSize

Maximum file size (in bytes) that can be uploaded with the REST API.

The file is loaded using the `Resources` interface, so it can be located in the classpath or the configuration directory.

Default value: `20971520` (20 Mb)

[[jmix.rest.optimisticLockingEnabled]]
=== jmix.rest.optimisticLockingEnabled

Enables optimistic locking of entities with optimistic locking if the version attribute is provided in JSON.

Default value: `false`

[[jmix.rest.queriesConfig]]
=== jmix.rest.queriesConfig

Property defining a file that contains a list of JPQL queries available for application calls.

The file is loaded using the Resources interface, so it can be located in the classpath or the configuration directory.

// TODO: [MD] link to configuration directory description once it is available in the docs

Default value: `none`


[[jmix.rest.responseFetchPlanEnabled]]
=== jmix.rest.responseFetchPlanEnabled

If set to true, the `responseFetchPlan` parameter with the fetch plan name can be passed in the create and update requests. In this case, the created/updated entity is reloaded with the specified fetch plan and returned as part of the response JSON.

If set to false, the response contains JSON with a minimal representation of the created/updated entity.

Default value: `true`


include::configuration/security-configuration.adoc[]

Commit message:

configuration information for queriesConfig and servicesConfig

content/modules/rest/pages/configuration.adoc, after:

= Configuration

Jmix REST properties allow you to configure different aspects of the behavior of the generic REST endpoints.

TIP: https://doc.cuba-platform.com/restapi-7.2/#rest_api_v2_settings

TIP: https://doc.cuba-platform.com/restapi-7.2/#app_properties

[[entities-api-properties]]
== Entities API


[[jmix.rest.defaultMaxFetchSize]]
=== jmix.rest.defaultMaxFetchSize

Defines the default maximum amount of entity instances that are returned by the API.

Default value: `10000`


[[jmix.rest.entityMaxFetchSize]]
=== jmix.rest.entityMaxFetchSize

Defines the default maximum amount of entity instances that are returned by the API for a particular entity.

The following example configures the `entityMaxFetchSize` value for two entities. For all other entites the value from <<jmix.rest.defaultMaxFetchSize, jmix.rest.defaultMaxFetchSize>> is taken into consideration.

[source,properties]
----
jmix.rest.entityMaxFetchSize.sample_Product = 500
jmix.rest.entityMaxFetchSize.sample_Customer = 1000
----


[[jmix.rest.jsonTransformationConfig]]
=== jmix.rest.jsonTransformationConfig

Property defining a file that contains a list of JSON transformations configurations used by the REST API when the client needs data in the format of some particular data model version.

The file is loaded using the Resources interface, so it can be located in the classpath or the configuration directory.

// TODO: [MD] link to configuration directory description once it is available in the docs

Default value: `none`

[[jmix.rest.maxUploadSize]]
=== jmix.rest.maxUploadSize

Maximum file size (in bytes) that can be uploaded with the REST API.

The file is loaded using the `Resources` interface, so it can be located in the classpath or the configuration directory.

Default value: `20971520` (20 Mb)

[[jmix.rest.optimisticLockingEnabled]]
=== jmix.rest.optimisticLockingEnabled

Enables optimistic locking of entities with optimistic locking if the version attribute is provided in JSON.

Default value: `false`

[[jmix.rest.queriesConfig]]
=== jmix.rest.queriesConfig

Property defining a file that contains a list of JPQL queries available as part of the xref:rest:entities-api/load-entities.adoc#_load_entities_via_jpql[Entities API].

[source,properties]
----
jmix.rest.queriesConfig = rest/sample/rest-queries.xml
----

The file is loaded using the Resources interface, so it can be located in the classpath or the configuration directory.

// TODO: [MD] link to configuration directory description once it is available in the docs

Default value: `none`

[[jmix.rest.servicesConfig]]
=== jmix.rest.servicesConfig

Property defining a file that contains a list of Service methods that are exposed via the xref:rest:business-logic.adoc#_services_api[Services API].

[source,properties]
----
jmix.rest.servicesConfig = rest/sample/rest-services.xml
----

The file is loaded using the Resources interface, so it can be located in the classpath or the configuration directory.

// TODO: [MD] link to configuration directory description once it is available in the docs

Default value: `none`


[[jmix.rest.responseFetchPlanEnabled]]
=== jmix.rest.responseFetchPlanEnabled

If set to true, the `responseFetchPlan` parameter with the fetch plan name can be passed in the create and update requests. In this case, the created/updated entity is reloaded with the specified fetch plan and returned as part of the response JSON.

If set to false, the response contains JSON with a minimal representation of the created/updated entity.

Default value: `true`


include::configuration/security-configuration.adoc[]
