content/modules/rest/pages/files-api.adoc, before:

= Files API

This API uses the xref:files:index.adoc[Files mechanism] provided by Jmix and exposes it through the REST API to let client applications upload and download files to/from a Jmix application.

== Uploading Files

The Upload Files API endpoint `/files` used with a `POST` HTTP method allows you to transfer a file to the Jmix application.

There are two different ways of transferring the data:

1. Using `multipart/form-data`
2. Using different content types with the body containing the binary data

Depending on the use case either of those two options might be a better fit. In both situations, the API returns `201 - Created` to indicate that the file was successfully stored.

=== Using Multipart/form-data

When using a standard browser form to submit the file to the Jmix application, the preferred way is to use the first option, as browsers by default use the Content-Type `multipart/form-data` in this case. The form data that contains the file binary needs to be named `file` so that Jmix takes this part as the file content.

In this example you can see a `multipart/form-data` request, that uploads the file `cat.jpg` in its raw HTTP form:

[source, http request]
.Upload File as Multipart/form-data Request
----
POST http://localhost:8080/rest/files
Content-Type: multipart/form-data; boundary=WebAppBoundary // <1>

--WebAppBoundary
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="file"; filename="cat.jpg" // <2>
Content-Type: image/jpeg

< ./cat.jpg // <3>
--WebAppBoundary--
----
<1> The `Content-Type` of the HTTP request is `multipart/form-data`
<2> The `Content-Disposition` part with the name `file` expresses the file to upload. The filename there as well.
<3> `< ./cat.jpg` stands for the binary data of the file (_the actual binary content is not displayed here_).

[source, json]
.Response: 201 - Created
----
{
  "fileRef": "fs://2021/03/12/a3b6011d-9040-151e-7d17-f7ccdf75d72f.jpg?name=cat.jpg", // <1>
  "name": "cat.jpg",
  "size": 85862
}
----
<1> The `fileRef` contains the reference for later use.

In case you want to control the file name under which the file is stored, you can set the URL parameter `name` like this:
`POST http://localhost:8080/rest/files?name=dog.jpg`. In this case, Jmix will pick up the filename from the parameter and not consider the `Content-Disposition`.

[NOTE]
====
When using an HTML `<form src="" />` tag to upload a file it is _not_ directly possible to set the `Authorization` header.

The Generic REST API therefore also allows to xref:security.adoc#_authenticate_via_url_parameter[authenticate via URL Parameter] as an alternative.
====

=== Using Direct Upload

It is also possible to upload a file without using the `multipart/form-data` content type. Instead, you can use the content type of the file directly. The body of the HTTP request contains the binary file content directly in this case. You need to provide the URL parameter `name` to indicate which filename to use for the file.

In this example you can see how to use the Direct Request to upload a file:

[source, http request]
.Upload File as Direct Request
----
POST http://localhost:8080/rest/files?name=cat-via-direct-request.jpg // <1>
Content-Type: image/jpeg // <2>

< ./cat.jpg // <3>
----
<1> The `name` URL parameter provides the filename to store.
<2> The `Content-Type` is the actual content type of the file.
<3> `< ./cat.jpg` stands for the binary data of the file (_the actual binary content is not displayed here_).

[source, json]
.Response: 201 - Created
----
{
  "fileRef": "fs://2021/03/12/2266c97c-cf23-c202-481d-04d972e185b4.jpg?name=cat-via-direct-request.jpg",
  "name": "cat-via-direct-request.jpg",
  "size": 85862
}
----


== Downloading Files

Files that are already uploaded in your Jmix application, can also be downloaded or displayed. For this you should use the Downloading Files endpoint: `/files?fileRef=:fileRef` via HTTP `GET`. The API returns `200 - OK` if the file was found together with the file binary content as part of the HTTP body. Otherwise `404 - Not Found` is returned.

In the following example the previously uploaded file is downloaded via the API:

[source, http request]
.Download File Request
----
GET http://localhost:8080/rest
            /files
            ?fileRef=fs://2021/03/12/2266c97c-cf23-c202-481d-04d972e185b4.jpg?name=cat-via-direct-request.jpg // <1>
----
<1> `fs://2021/03/12/2266c97c-cf23-c202-481d-04d972e185b4.jpg?name=cat-via-direct-request.jpg` identifies the file by its reference.

[source, http request]
.Response: 200 - OK
----
Content-Disposition: inline; filename="cat-via-direct-content-type.jpg" // <1>
Content-Type: image/jpeg // <2>

> ./cat-via-direct-content-type.jpg // <3>
----
<1> The `Content-Disposition` Header contains the filename as well as information on how to handle the file after downloading (`inline` or `attachment`).
<2> The `Content-Type` Header contains the content type of the file.
<3> `> ./cat-via-direct-content-type.jpg` stands for the binary data of the file (_the actual binary content is not displayed here_).

[NOTE]
====
When using an HTML link or rendering an image through the `<img src="" />` tag to a file it is _not_ directly possible to set the `Authorization` header.

The Generic REST API therefore also allows to xref:security.adoc#_authenticate_via_url_parameter[authenticate via URL Parameter] as an alternative.
====


== Referencing Files from Entities

You can link files to entities after the file has been stored in the Jmix application.

First, you need to upload the file as described in <<_uploading_files, Uploading Files>>. In the response of the upload, a file reference like `fs://2021/03/12/2266c97c-cf23-c202-481d-04d972e185b4.jpg?name=cat-via-direct-request.jpg` is returned. You can use this reference when creating / updating entities and link them to the file.

In the following example, the `Product` entity uses a file reference to store a product image.

[source,java]
.Product.java
----
@JmixEntity
@Table(name = "RSTEX11_PRODUCT")
@Entity(name = "rstex11_Product")
public class Product {

    @PropertyDatatype("fileRef")
    @Column(name = "IMAGE")
    private FileRef image;

    //...
}
----

When creating a Product via the Create Entities API, you need to pass in the previously received file reference as the value of the `image` attribute:

[source, http request]
.Create Product with File Reference Request
----
POST http://localhost:8080/rest
            /entities
            /rstex11_Product
            ?responseFetchPlan=_local

{
  "name": "Product with Image",
  "price":100,
  "image": "fs://2021/03/13/f623e8ab-524e-51ed-1a9f-b1c1369239e3.jpg?name=cat.jpg"
}
----

[source,json]
.Response: 201 - Created
----
{
  "id": "ea6f1b3c-0e74-c90b-b009-9f58ac964034",
  "image": "fs://2021/03/13/f623e8ab-524e-51ed-1a9f-b1c1369239e3.jpg?name=cat.jpg",
  "price": 100.00,
  "name": "Product with Image"
}
----

Commit message:

added description for downloading files with special characters

content/modules/rest/pages/files-api.adoc, after:

= Files API

This API uses the xref:files:index.adoc[Files mechanism] provided by Jmix and exposes it through the REST API to let client applications upload and download files to/from a Jmix application.

== Uploading Files

The Upload Files API endpoint `/files` used with a `POST` HTTP method allows you to transfer a file to the Jmix application.

There are two different ways of transferring the data:

1. Using `multipart/form-data`
2. Using different content types with the body containing the binary data

Depending on the use case either of those two options might be a better fit. In both situations, the API returns `201 - Created` to indicate that the file was successfully stored.

=== Using Multipart/form-data

When using a standard browser form to submit the file to the Jmix application, the preferred way is to use the first option, as browsers by default use the Content-Type `multipart/form-data` in this case. The form data that contains the file binary needs to be named `file` so that Jmix takes this part as the file content.

In this example you can see a `multipart/form-data` request, that uploads the file `cat.jpg` in its raw HTTP form:

[source, http request]
.Upload File as Multipart/form-data Request
----
POST http://localhost:8080/rest/files
Content-Type: multipart/form-data; boundary=WebAppBoundary // <1>

--WebAppBoundary
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="file"; filename="cat.jpg" // <2>
Content-Type: image/jpeg

< ./cat.jpg // <3>
--WebAppBoundary--
----
<1> The `Content-Type` of the HTTP request is `multipart/form-data`
<2> The `Content-Disposition` part with the name `file` expresses the file to upload. The filename there as well.
<3> `< ./cat.jpg` stands for the binary data of the file (_the actual binary content is not displayed here_).

[source, json]
.Response: 201 - Created
----
{
  "fileRef": "fs://2021/03/12/a3b6011d-9040-151e-7d17-f7ccdf75d72f.jpg?name=cat.jpg", // <1>
  "name": "cat.jpg",
  "size": 85862
}
----
<1> The `fileRef` contains the reference for later use.

In case you want to control the file name under which the file is stored, you can set the URL parameter `name` like this:
`POST http://localhost:8080/rest/files?name=dog.jpg`. In this case, Jmix will pick up the filename from the parameter and not consider the `Content-Disposition`.

[NOTE]
====
When using an HTML `<form src="" />` tag to upload a file it is _not_ directly possible to set the `Authorization` header.

The Generic REST API therefore also allows to xref:security.adoc#_authenticate_via_url_parameter[authenticate via URL Parameter] as an alternative.
====

=== Using Direct Upload

It is also possible to upload a file without using the `multipart/form-data` content type. Instead, you can use the content type of the file directly. The body of the HTTP request contains the binary file content directly in this case. You need to provide the URL parameter `name` to indicate which filename to use for the file.

In this example you can see how to use the Direct Request to upload a file:

[source, http request]
.Upload File as Direct Request
----
POST http://localhost:8080/rest/files?name=cat-via-direct-request.jpg // <1>
Content-Type: image/jpeg // <2>

< ./cat.jpg // <3>
----
<1> The `name` URL parameter provides the filename to store.
<2> The `Content-Type` is the actual content type of the file.
<3> `< ./cat.jpg` stands for the binary data of the file (_the actual binary content is not displayed here_).

[source, json]
.Response: 201 - Created
----
{
  "fileRef": "fs://2021/03/12/2266c97c-cf23-c202-481d-04d972e185b4.jpg?name=cat-via-direct-request.jpg",
  "name": "cat-via-direct-request.jpg",
  "size": 85862
}
----


== Downloading Files

Files that are already uploaded in your Jmix application, can also be downloaded or displayed.

For this you should use the Downloading Files endpoint: `/files?fileRef=:fileRef` via HTTP `GET`. The API returns `200 - OK` if the file exists together with the file binary content as part of the HTTP body. Otherwise, `404 - Not Found` is returned.

In the following example the previously uploaded file is downloaded via the API:

[source, http request]
.Download File Request
----
GET http://localhost:8080/rest
            /files
            ?fileRef=fs://2021/03/12/2266c97c-cf23-c202-481d-04d972e185b4.jpg?name=cat-via-direct-request.jpg // <1>
----
<1> `fs://2021/03/12/2266c97c-cf23-c202-481d-04d972e185b4.jpg?name=cat-via-direct-request.jpg` identifies the file by its reference.

[NOTE]
====
The `fileRef` parameter should always be URL encoded in order to prevent any issues special characters. So the actual URL from above should look like this when requested from the API:

`fileRef=fs%3A%2F%2F2021%2F03%2F12%2F2266c97c-cf23-c202-481d-04d972e185b4.jpg%3Fname%3Dcat-via-direct-request.jpg`
====

In case the file exists, the response will contain the file like below:

[source, http request]
.Response: 200 - OK
----
Content-Disposition: inline; filename="cat-via-direct-content-type.jpg" // <1>
Content-Type: image/jpeg // <2>

> ./cat-via-direct-content-type.jpg // <3>
----
<1> The `Content-Disposition` Header contains the filename as well as information on how to handle the file after downloading (`inline` or `attachment`).
<2> The `Content-Type` Header contains the content type of the file.
<3> `> ./cat-via-direct-content-type.jpg` stands for the binary data of the file (_the actual binary content is not displayed here_).

[NOTE]
====
When using an HTML link or rendering an image through the `<img src="" />` tag to a file it is _not_ directly possible to set the `Authorization` header.

The Generic REST API therefore also allows to xref:security.adoc#_authenticate_via_url_parameter[authenticate via URL Parameter] as an alternative.
====


== Referencing Files from Entities

You can link files to entities after the file has been stored in the Jmix application.

First, you need to upload the file as described in <<_uploading_files, Uploading Files>>. In the response of the upload, a file reference like `fs://2021/03/12/2266c97c-cf23-c202-481d-04d972e185b4.jpg?name=cat-via-direct-request.jpg` is returned. You can use this reference when creating / updating entities and link them to the file.

In the following example, the `Product` entity uses a file reference to store a product image.

[source,java]
.Product.java
----
@JmixEntity
@Table(name = "RSTEX11_PRODUCT")
@Entity(name = "rstex11_Product")
public class Product {

    @PropertyDatatype("fileRef")
    @Column(name = "IMAGE")
    private FileRef image;

    //...
}
----

When creating a Product via the Create Entities API, you need to pass in the previously received file reference as the value of the `image` attribute:

[source, http request]
.Create Product with File Reference Request
----
POST http://localhost:8080/rest
            /entities
            /rstex11_Product
            ?responseFetchPlan=_local

{
  "name": "Product with Image",
  "price":100,
  "image": "fs://2021/03/13/f623e8ab-524e-51ed-1a9f-b1c1369239e3.jpg?name=cat.jpg"
}
----

[source,json]
.Response: 201 - Created
----
{
  "id": "ea6f1b3c-0e74-c90b-b009-9f58ac964034",
  "image": "fs://2021/03/13/f623e8ab-524e-51ed-1a9f-b1c1369239e3.jpg?name=cat.jpg",
  "price": 100.00,
  "name": "Product with Image"
}
----
