content/modules/rest/pages/getting-started.adoc, before:

= Getting Started with REST
:page-aliases: rest:quick-start.adoc

This section contains an example of retrieving the information about application users through the Generic REST API.

First, add the Generic REST add-on to your project according to the xref:index.adoc#installation[installation] section.

[[obtaining-access-token]]
== Obtaining Access Token

To access the protected resource the client must present a valid access token. The OAuth 2.1 specification provides several ways to get an access token from the authorization server. They are called grant types. In this example, we will use the {oauth-specification-page}#name-client-credentials-grant[Client Credentials grant^] which is suitable for confidential clients, such as backend integrations.

The functionality responsible for issuing tokens and supporting OAuth 2.1 protocol features is located inside the Authorization Server add-on. You must add this add-on to your application. See the xref:authorization-server:index.adoc#installation[Authorization Server] add-on documentation for instructions on how to do this.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
implementation 'io.jmix.authserver:jmix-authserver-starter'
----

The idea is that in Jmix application we must register the client (e.g. an external application that needs to access Jmix REST API), define client id and secret, and then using these credentials we will be able to get the access token by a special HTTP request.

The simplest way to register a client is to add standard Spring Authorization Server application properties:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
include::example$/rest-ex1/src/main/resources/application.properties[tags=my-client-registration]
----

The next set of application properties is Jmix-specific and defines which resource and row-level roles must be assigned to the access token issued to the client. In this example we will assign two resource roles:

* `rest-minimal` (REST: minimal access) - to enable REST API endpoints access.
* `user-management` (User management) - to allow operations with the User entity using REST API.

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
include::example$/rest-ex1/src/main/resources/application.properties[tags=my-client-role-assignment]
----

The `user-management` role looks as follows:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/rest-ex1/src/main/java/com/company/demo/security/UserManagementRole.java[tags=user-management-role]
----
<1> The API scope indicates the role will be applied for REST API requests

After these properties are defined in the application it should be possible to obtain access tokens. In this example, we will use the `curl` command-line tool to interact with the REST API.

[source, bash]
----
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/oauth2/token \
   --basic --user my-client:my-secret \
   -H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
   -d "grant_type=client_credentials"
----

TIP: On Windows, remove `\` symbols and write the command in a single line.

As a result, you should get something like this:

.HTTP/1.1 200
[source, json]
----
{
  "access_token":"hKhgNyGMTqaKd6prH-GoHF8zFVTSr9tKKyE3OnMoafRO4FT4Xq_cewHr28cIRITaRmF0olRXpVTyFdxcOPTAl8Vc7xopHrdNuXNXwEeBn7NSiEMvQXW5zO0dwMn_H8FQ",
  "token_type":"Bearer",
  "expires_in":299
}
----

The `access_token` attribute is the token you can use for further requests as part of the `Authorization` Header. It acts as a temporary credential that grants you access to the application.

[[protecting-rest-endpoints]]
== Protecting REST Endpoints

By default, when you add the REST API add-on to the application, no security is applied to REST endpoints. There are xref:security:custom-endpoints.adoc[multiple ways] to protect these endpoints. One way is to configure authenticated URLs for resource server, which is configured by the Authorization Server add-on.

Add the following application property:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
include::example$/rest-ex1/src/main/resources/application.properties[tags=rest-authenticated-url-patterns]
----

[[retrieve-entity-list]]
== Retrieve Entity List

With the access token you can use the generic REST API endpoints to load a list of users (replace `<access_token>` with the value obtained on the previous step). In this case, we will fetch all the users that are present in the application through the Entities API:

[source, bash]
----
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/rest/entities/User \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <access_token>"
----

The response will contain all users that are available in the application:

.HTTP/1.1 200
[source, json]
----
[
  {
    "_entityName": "User",
    "_instanceName": "[admin]",
    "id": "60885987-1b61-4247-94c7-dff348347f93",
    "version": 1,
    "active": true,
    "username": "admin"
  }
]
----

Commit message:

Update getting-started.adoc adding notes to a request

content/modules/rest/pages/getting-started.adoc, after:

= Getting Started with REST
:page-aliases: rest:quick-start.adoc

This section contains an example of retrieving the information about application users through the Generic REST API.

First, add the Generic REST add-on to your project according to the xref:index.adoc#installation[installation] section.

[[obtaining-access-token]]
== Obtaining Access Token

To access the protected resource the client must present a valid access token. The OAuth 2.1 specification provides several ways to get an access token from the authorization server. They are called grant types. In this example, we will use the {oauth-specification-page}#name-client-credentials-grant[Client Credentials grant^] which is suitable for confidential clients, such as backend integrations.

The functionality responsible for issuing tokens and supporting OAuth 2.1 protocol features is located inside the Authorization Server add-on. You must add this add-on to your application. See the xref:authorization-server:index.adoc#installation[Authorization Server] add-on documentation for instructions on how to do this.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
implementation 'io.jmix.authserver:jmix-authserver-starter'
----

The idea is that in Jmix application we must register the client (e.g. an external application that needs to access Jmix REST API), define client id and secret, and then using these credentials we will be able to get the access token by a special HTTP request.

The simplest way to register a client is to add standard Spring Authorization Server application properties:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
include::example$/rest-ex1/src/main/resources/application.properties[tags=my-client-registration]
----

The next set of application properties is Jmix-specific and defines which resource and row-level roles must be assigned to the access token issued to the client. In this example we will assign two resource roles:

* `rest-minimal` (REST: minimal access) - to enable REST API endpoints access.
* `user-management` (User management) - to allow operations with the User entity using REST API.

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
include::example$/rest-ex1/src/main/resources/application.properties[tags=my-client-role-assignment]
----

The `user-management` role looks as follows:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/rest-ex1/src/main/java/com/company/demo/security/UserManagementRole.java[tags=user-management-role]
----
<1> The API scope indicates the role will be applied for REST API requests

After these properties are defined in the application it should be possible to obtain access tokens. In this example, we will use the `curl` command-line tool to interact with the REST API.

[source, bash]
----
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/oauth2/token \
   --basic --user my-client:my-secret \
   -H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
   -d "grant_type=client_credentials"
----

TIP: On Windows, remove `\` symbols and write the command in a single line.

As a result, you should get something like this:

.HTTP/1.1 200
[source, json]
----
{
  "access_token":"hKhgNyGMTqaKd6prH-GoHF8zFVTSr9tKKyE3OnMoafRO4FT4Xq_cewHr28cIRITaRmF0olRXpVTyFdxcOPTAl8Vc7xopHrdNuXNXwEeBn7NSiEMvQXW5zO0dwMn_H8FQ",
  "token_type":"Bearer",
  "expires_in":299
}
----

The `access_token` attribute is the token you can use for further requests as part of the `Authorization` Header. It acts as a temporary credential that grants you access to the application.

[[protecting-rest-endpoints]]
== Protecting REST Endpoints

By default, when you add the REST API add-on to the application, no security is applied to REST endpoints. There are xref:security:custom-endpoints.adoc[multiple ways] to protect these endpoints. One way is to configure authenticated URLs for resource server, which is configured by the Authorization Server add-on.

Add the following application property:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
include::example$/rest-ex1/src/main/resources/application.properties[tags=rest-authenticated-url-patterns]
----

[[retrieve-entity-list]]
== Retrieve Entity List

With the access token you can use the generic REST API endpoints to load a list of users (replace `<access_token>` with the value obtained on the previous step). In this case, we will fetch all the users that are present in the application through the Entities API:

[source, bash]
----
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/rest/entities/User \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer <access_token>"
----
N.B.: if your project has a Project Id (a prefix, that is added to entities, tables and bean names), it should be added to a request as `<project-id>_User`.

FYI: here `-X GET` key is added explicitly to show the type of it. cURL will note you about unnecessary use of `-X`, `GET` is already inferred.

The response will contain all users that are available in the application:

.HTTP/1.1 200
[source, json]
----
[
  {
    "_entityName": "User",
    "_instanceName": "[admin]",
    "id": "60885987-1b61-4247-94c7-dff348347f93",
    "version": 1,
    "active": true,
    "username": "admin"
  }
]
----
