content/modules/rest/pages/security.adoc, before:

= Security

When using the REST API, your client application needs to act under the permissions and restrictions of a particular user. This way Jmix can link the API calls to a user and apply the regular xref:security:authorization.adoc[Security Authorization] capabilities of Jmix to the requests.

The REST API supports a variety of security mechanisms that are available via the xref:security:index.adoc[Security Subsystem] of Jmix. Additionally, it adds API-specific parts on top like OAuth2 for securing the interactions via the API.

[[predefined-roles]]
== Predefined Roles

*REST: minimal access* (`rest-minimal`): Allows users to interact with the application via the API.

[[cors]]
== CORS

For security reasons, browsers don't allow JavaScript network calls to resources outside the current origin. Cross-Origin Resource Sharing or CORS solves this restriction, as it lets you specify which cross-domain requests are allowed.

By default, all cross-origin requests to the REST API are allowed. To restrict the origins list you can define the xref:ROOT:app-properties.adoc#jmix.cors.allowed-origins[jmix.cors.allowed-origins] application property and other xref::app-properties.adoc#cors[CORS properties].

CORS settings are automatically applied to the following URLs:

* `/rest/**`
* `/oauth/**`
* URL patterns defined in xref:app-properties.adoc#jmix.rest.authenticated-url-patterns[jmix.rest.authenticated-url-patterns] property.

If you want to apply the CORS settings to another URL path, define the following bean (you can do it in the main application class):

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/rest/sample/RestEx1Application.java[tags=custom-cors]
----

In order to replace the default CORS configuration provided by Jmix, register a bean with the `corsConfigurationSource` name in your project. In this case, the properties mentioned above will not work.

Refer to https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/servlet/integrations/cors.html[Spring Security Documentation^] for more information on CORS.

Commit message:

Mention DelegatingSecurityContextRunnable; introduce Antora attributes for Spring Security doc URLs
(cherry picked from commit 785f988794f01f10a129311580393f7c678127dc)

content/modules/rest/pages/security.adoc, after:

= Security

When using the REST API, your client application needs to act under the permissions and restrictions of a particular user. This way Jmix can link the API calls to a user and apply the regular xref:security:authorization.adoc[Security Authorization] capabilities of Jmix to the requests.

The REST API supports a variety of security mechanisms that are available via the xref:security:index.adoc[Security Subsystem] of Jmix. Additionally, it adds API-specific parts on top like OAuth2 for securing the interactions via the API.

[[predefined-roles]]
== Predefined Roles

*REST: minimal access* (`rest-minimal`): Allows users to interact with the application via the API.

[[cors]]
== CORS

For security reasons, browsers don't allow JavaScript network calls to resources outside the current origin. Cross-Origin Resource Sharing or CORS solves this restriction, as it lets you specify which cross-domain requests are allowed.

By default, all cross-origin requests to the REST API are allowed. To restrict the origins list you can define the xref:ROOT:app-properties.adoc#jmix.cors.allowed-origins[jmix.cors.allowed-origins] application property and other xref::app-properties.adoc#cors[CORS properties].

CORS settings are automatically applied to the following URLs:

* `/rest/**`
* `/oauth/**`
* URL patterns defined in xref:app-properties.adoc#jmix.rest.authenticated-url-patterns[jmix.rest.authenticated-url-patterns] property.

If you want to apply the CORS settings to another URL path, define the following bean (you can do it in the main application class):

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$/ex1/src/main/java/rest/sample/RestEx1Application.java[tags=custom-cors]
----

In order to replace the default CORS configuration provided by Jmix, register a bean with the `corsConfigurationSource` name in your project. In this case, the properties mentioned above will not work.

Refer to {spring-security-doc}/servlet/integrations/cors.html[Spring Security Documentation^] for more information on CORS.
